On January 21, 2020, a 47-year-old man with fever without source and cough of 7 days of evolution was admitted to the Popular Hospital of Wuwei.
The patient reported fever (up to 39.3 °C), cough with nasal sputum or white pain, congestion, rhinorrhea, dizziness, fatigue, chest tightness, and nausea, but without chest problems.
He informed him that he had arrived in Wuwei City in the kitchen on January 18, coming from Wuhan.
The patient had a history of grade 2 hypertension and type 2 diabetes and was a smoker since she was 27 years old; he did not report any history of alcoholism.
Nasopharyngeal swabs were taken on January 23, 29, and 30, in accordance with CDC guidelines.
After introducing a nasopharyngeal swab into the nostrils, it rotates over the nasopharyngeal mucosa 10 to 15 seconds and then is removed; it is finally inserted into a sterile tube with a transport medium.
The samples were analyzed by RT-PCR.
Three target genes were detected: RdRP, E and N. The positive expression (CT value ≤ 43) of the three genes, RdRP and E genes or RdRP-CoV-2 genes conclusively identify the SARS
Other tests were also performed.
The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Primer Hospital Agreste of the medical school of Wanan, in compliance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.
Informed consent was obtained from the patient to use his medical history in this study.
Based on analytical tests, chest X-ray and clinical and epidemiological information, the patient was treated with interferon α and methylprednisolone.
However, due to the sudden worsening of clinical symptoms, such as dyspnea, eating deficiency and lethargy, January 23rd, 2009, transferred the patient to Primer Hospital Wana, Medical School in China.
Analytical tests are shown in Table 1 (day 0).
The results indicated that the patient had stable vital signs, reduced lymphocyte values, high C-reactive protein values and moderately high fibrinogen, neutrophils and lactic dehydrogenase values.
A lung CT scan showed multiple dispersed pleural density sounds mainly located in the margins of the lungs, changes consistent with the observation of bronchogram or changes in ground glass opacity, as well as slight thickening.
Polytherapy with lopinavir/ ritonavir tablets was initiated with 200 IU/ day ritonavir, methylprednisolone (40 mg/ day), recombinant human interferon alfa-2b (10 million/ day), empirical antimicrobial ambroxol hydrochloride (600.4 mg/day).
High-flow oxygen inhalation therapy was used to prevent acute respiratory failure.
Treatment was also applied to control blood glucose and blood pressure and rehydration therapy.
On the second day of treatment, the patient presented intermittent fever (interval between 36.0 °C and urticarial °C).
With the exception of occasional chest tightness and dyspnea, improvement in other symptoms was observed, such as cough with white sputum, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, dizziness, and fatigue.
On the third day of treatment methylprednisolone was reduced to 20 mg per day and on the fifth day it was completely removed.
In addition, on the eighth day of treatment, steroid therapy was discontinued due to a clear improvement in respiratory capacity.
Based on the persistent negative results of SARS-CoV-2 on days 6 and 7, as well as the partial elimination of pulmonary lesions (figure S1b), the patient was discharged on day 10.
During treatment, the patient's temperature, pulse and respiratory rate showed mild fluctuations (S1c figure) and laboratory tests showed an improvement, especially in the lymphocyte count.
