On January 21, 2020, a 50-year-old man came to an infectious disease clinic with symptoms of fever, chills, fatigue and dyspnea.
He informed of a trip to Wuhan on January 8-12, and reported that he had initial symptoms of mild chills and dry cough on January 14, (day 1 of illness), but continued to attend consultation.
The chest CT showed multiple patchy sounds in both lungs and a pharyngeal smear was performed.
On January 22 (day 9 of disease), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) confirmed by real-time RT-PCR that the patient had COV-19.
He was immediately admitted to the Infectious Diseases Unit and received mask therapy.
Interferon alfa-2b (5 million units twice a day, sprayed) and lopinavir and ritonavir (500 mg twice a day, orally) were given as antiviral and moxifloxacin therapy.
to prevent overinfections.
Considering severe dyspnea and hypoxemia, methylprednisolone was administered twice daily i.v.)
inflammation in the lungs.
After receiving the medication, her temperature dropped from 39.0 °C to 36.4 °C; however, the symptoms of cough, dyspnea and fatigue did not improve.
On day 12 of the disease, after the initial consultation, the chest CT showed diffuse infiltrates and shadows in both lungs.
The patient refused the respirator in the ICU, because he suffered from psoriatrophobia; consequently, he received caudal anaesthesia with a high flow nasal cannula (concentration 60%, 40 L/L).
On day 13 of the disease, the patient's symptoms remained unchanged, but oxygen saturation remained above 95%.
In the afternoon of day 14 of disease, hypoxemia and dyspnea worsened.
Despite receiving conservative therapy (concentration 100%, flow rate 40 L/min), oxygen saturation decreased to 60% and the patient had a sudden cardiac arrest.
Immediately, invasive ventilation and cardiac massage were applied and administered.
Unfortunately, resuscitation failed and the patient died at 18:31 (Pekin's hour).
Biopsies were taken from the lungs, liver and heart of the patient.
Histological examination revealed diffuse bilateral alveolar damage with cellular fibromyxoid▁exudates.
The right lung showed clear desquamation of pneumocytes and formation of hyaline membranes, indicating acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
The left lung tissue showed pulmonary edema with hyaline membrane formation, indicative of initial ARDS.
In both lungs interstitial mononuclear inflammatory infiltrates were observed,▁dominated by lymphocytes.
Multinucleated non-consecutive cells with atypical pneumocytes hypertrophy caused by large nuclei, neutrophilic granulosum cytoplasm and prominent neutrophils in the intraalveolar spaces were identified, indicating viral changes.
No obvious viral inclusions were identified, neither intranuclear nor intracytoplasmic.
