A 52-year-old man presented in our emergency department with fever, cough, asthenia, headache, myalgia and photophobia for a week.
He stated that he had not traveled during the last months, but he reported contacts with various Chinese people (none of them with a history of nCoV-19 infection) and Italian high-risk people from northern Italy to northern Italy
Oxygen saturation with ambient air was 90% and low flow therapy was initiated.
On examination, the patient was sick and dyspneic; on auscultation bilateral crackles were noticed.
The rest of the exploration did not provide any more relevant data.
Laboratory tests showed▁lymphocytic colitis, high levels of LDH and inflammatory markers.
Blood cultures were performed and antibiotic treatment was initiated.
A chest X-ray showed a possible left perihilar condensation.
Lung ultrasound was also performed.
After these interventions, a smear was performed for respiratory virus tests and nCoV-19; the result was positive for nCoV-19.
Lung ultrasound was performed with a portable convex transducer (3.5 mHz) with an wireless connection to a tablet.
This device was introduced because, although it provides low quality images compared to the latest generation devices, it allowed minimizing the risk of contamination of devices and the consequent spread of nosocomial infections.
Two operators, an emergency physician (operator 1) and an emergency nurse (operator 2), entered the isolation room respecting all the preventive measures for respiratory isolation, World Health Organization broth contact established by the World Health Organization.
The transducer and tablet were introduced into different plastic containers.
Operator 1 performed lung ultrasound using the inhaled transducer and, consequently, in contact with the patient.
Operator 2 feels like a tablet and was responsible for capturing and storing images and videos; consequently, he did not have contact with the patient or any other object in the room.
The protocol was shared and accepted by the two operators before entering the room to minimize the risk of contamination in a high-risk environment.
At the end of the intervention, the tablet and transducer were sterilized in an area destined for this purpose and then introduced into two new sterile plastic bags.
The▁thorax was explored in the following 12 areas: anterior superior and inferior, lateral superior and inferior, posterior superior and inferior, bilaterally.
Informed consent was obtained.
In our institution, the use of lung ultrasound is routinely included in the care of patients with respiratory diseases and is authorized by the ethics committee.
Lung ultrasound showed bilateral irregular pleural line in the anterior and posterior hemithorax, with small subpleural consolidations, areas of white lung and irregular, confluent and thick vertical artifacts.
Healthy areas were bilaterally mixed with pathological areas.
