A 59-year-old man was admitted to hospital with an ambulatory-confirmed MRSA-CoV-2 infection by positive RT-PCR from pharyngeal smears and relevant clinical symptoms.
The patient had previously visited south tirol.
Six days before admission, the patient presented initial symptoms in the form of chills and fever.
She had no history.
Upon admission, the patient presented hyperthermia of 4 °C and a patent tachypnea with a respiratory rate of 28 r.p.m. with sufficient ̈saturation with environmental air ̈.p.m.m.
Clinically, she reported a strong feeling of general▁malaise with manifest fatigue.
Blood tests showed white cell count with a leukocyte count × 109/l, lymphocyte count with a lymphocyte count of 0.96 × 109/l (25 %), a slight increase in C-reactive protein with a value of 14.7 mg/l and a low value of 0.11.
The HD, as a risk factor for instability, showed no high values at 370 μg.
Interleukin-6 as an inflammatory parameter was somewhat high, with a concentration of 36.4 pg/ml, LDH was 330 U/l and creatine kinase was 412 U/l.
Albumin was initially within the normal range, at 4.0 g/dl.
The fine-cut chest CT performed on the day of admission showed bilateral and multifocal ground glass opacities, partially overlapped with patchy pattern reticulation.
There was consolidation, but much less remarkable than ground glass opacities, which were approximately rounded and geographically distributed.
It is noteworthy that, in some cases, they were clearly delimited from the healthy lung parenchyma.
A positive air bronchogram was evident in the abnormalities.
All the alterations were found in the periphery of the lungs, in the craniosynostosis plane the base of the lungs; the left lower lobe was the most affected.
Because of the set of risks with clinically significant impairments, high fever, respiratory dysfunction and morphologically clear parenchymal abnormalities on CT scans, it was decided to rapidly use antiviral (lopinavir-ritonavir) and antibiotics.
Due to persistent fever of up to 39.6 °C and worsening respiratory symptoms with increased oxygen demand, a follow-up chest CT was performed on day 6 after admission (fig.
2.
Images showed a clear decrease in densities, but in contrast to the initial CT scan, consolidations▁dominated the image.
The periphery and base of the lungs remained the most affected areas.
On day 7, high-flow nasal corticosteroid therapy was started due to severe respiratory failure.
On day 16, the patient had improved clinically and was ready for hospital discharge.
No more follow-up CT scans were performed.
