A 43-year-old Caucasian man, without previous diseases, came to the Infectious Diseases Clinic on 2020, with fever of up to 39.5°C,▁malaise and cough evolution March 6 days.
The patient showed good general health.
Physical examination, except for throat irritation, showed no abnormalities.
Blood tests yielded the following results: mild leukocyte count (11 leukocyte count: 3.57 x 103/μL, normal range: 4.0-10.0), thrombocytopenia (thrombocyte count: 107 x 103/μL normal).
A rapid flu smear was negative.
A median nasopharyngeal swab was obtained for genetic testing of severe acute respiratory syndrome due to coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).
The patient was discharged and advised to self-confine herself at home.
The next day, the laboratory confirmed the positive result by COVID-19.
Two days after discharge, the patient returned to the hospital with dyspnea.
Laboratory tests showed an increase in C-reactive protein to 250 mg/L, a normal white blood cell count of 8.26 μL and a lymphocyte count of 0.7 x 103/μL (normal range: 1.03/μL).
The patient had the following vital signs: SpO2 94%, blood pressure 80/60, temperature 1oC.
The chest X-ray showed bilateral ground glass opacities in the lower lobes and focal consolidation in the left lung.
The patient was admitted to the infectious diseases ward.
Treatment was initiated with chloroquine (1.0 g per day in two doses, orally), antibiotics (ceftriaxone 2.0 g per day IV.
clarithromycin 1.0 g daily in two doses, orally), oxygen (mask) and i.v. serum.
On day 23 there were signs of respiratory failure.
The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) where positive bipressure mechanical ventilation (BPAP) was applied and IV▁norepinephrine was administered.
because of the circulatory insufficiency which appeared on the following day.
Blood cultures, urine and sputum cultures were negative.
Another chest X-ray showed evolution in ground glass opacities and focal consolidations, especially in the left lung.
In the following days, despite a decrease in inflammatory markers, the clinical status remained unchanged.
The patient is still hospitalized in the ICU.
The ground glass opacities and focal consolidations (especially in the peripheral and subpleural areas of the lower zones) in the chest X-rays observed in this patient are the commonest regions of COV-19.
In our patient, clinical worsening was observed 6 days after the onset of symptoms; the patient was admitted 9 days later and the symptoms progressed between the ICU and 10 days later, which is consistent with the previous results 2 weeks after the onset of illness
