The patient is a 6-month-old girl, born at term, previously healthy and with a complete vaccination schedule, who was taken to the pediatric emergency department with fever, dizziness and refusal to breastfeed for one day.
He did not show cough, congestion, or rhinorrhea.
The examination showed a girl with dizziness, temperature of 38.8 °C and no focal signs of infection.
Blood tests included a rapid flu smear and urine catheter analysis; all results were negative.
A viral infection was diagnosed.
On day 2 of fever, she presented a rash with erythematous, apparently non-pruritic spots.
She returned to the emergency room on day 4 with fever and persistent rash.
Although he was still coughing, he seemed to have slight congestion.
Vital signs were: temperature of 38.3 °C, sinus tachycardia (200 l.p.m.)
and tachypnea with 100% oxygen saturation.
The examination revealed irritability, conjunctivitis without limbal involvement and dry and cracked lips.
Lymphadenopathy was not observed and extremities were normal.
He had mild subcostal retraction, but respiratory sounds were normal.
Laboratory tests revealed leukocytosis with left shift, normocytic anemia, normal thrombocytes, clearly elevated C-reactive protein (13.3 mg/dL) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 118 mm/h.
He had hyponatremia (sodium 133 mEq/L) and hypoalbuminemia (albumin 2.8 g/dL), with the rest of the normal values, including liver function tests.
Tests for respiratory pathogens by RT-PCR and blood cultures were negative.
A chest X-ray showed mild opacity in the left medial zone.
During this period of disease she had no contact with other patients.
His 9-year-old brother had had upper respiratory tract symptoms three weeks before.
The family had self-confined because of the COVID-19 pandemic during the previous week, without going to school or work.
There was no history of recent travel.
The patient was referred for admission and assessment of possible Kalaki disease.
Taking into account his fever, possible mild congestion and the results obtained, he was referred to the emergency service for tests of COVID-19 before admission to the pediatric ward.
On admission, the patient had a fever of 5 days, conjunctivitis without facial involvement, prominent taste buds, maculopulous rash pale with limbic involvement and classic Kaposi's syndrome manifestations and lower extremities,
The patient was treated with a single dose of 2 g/kg i.v. immunoglobulin.
and a high dose of▁acetylsalicylic acid (ASA 20 mg/kg four times daily) according to the treatment protocol.
Its last temperature value just after completing IV IG administration.
An echocardiography showed normal results, with no evidence of coronary dilation or aneurysm or pericardial effusion, and normal valvular and ventricular activity.
The night before discharge, the RT-PCR test for COVID-19 yielded positive results, performed at the Clinical Virology Laboratory.
The case was notified to the public health department and the family was instructed to store quarantine for 14 days from the date of the positive.
The patient was discharged with a low dose of ASA (3 mg/kg per day) and followed up by the pediatric cardiology department to perform an echocardiographic assessment two weeks after discharge, which was scheduled after 14 days.
