A 69-year-old patient came to the emergency department of the main hospital in a town in the red area in Lombardy (Italy).
He reported dyspnea that worsened, persistent cough and weakness, of four days of evolution.
A chest CT scan showed diffuse bilateral interstitial inflammation with subpleural consolidations.
The nasopharyngeal smear was positive for COVID-19 by real-time RT-PCR assay.
Analytical tests showed high levels of inflammatory and▁lymphocytic markers (white blood cell count 23080/mm3, neutrophils 91.4%, lymphocytes 1.4%, C-reactive protein 52.7 mg/L) and an increase in serum levels.
Arterial gas showed severe metabolic acidosis (pH 7.2, base excess –6 mEq/L, lactate 9 mmol/dL) and hypoxemia.
Non-invasive assisted breathing was started.
The first echocardiography showed left ventricular dilatation (left ventricular end-diastolic diameter of 56 mm), severe and diffuse LV hypokinesia (fraction of ex-ante VI 34%).
Three hours later, the fraction of LV ejection fraction fell to 25% and the cardiac index was 1.4 L/min/m2.
The results of a coronary angiography did not provide anything remarkable.
A balloon of aortic counterpulsation was placed, in addition to 8.7 mmHg (0.5 microgram/kg/min), and systolic▁norepinephrine (0.1 microgram/kg/min) was administered due to worsening of hypotension (pressure).
We activated the mobile team of our third level center with extracorporeal membrane isolation (ECMO) for the application of A-ECMO and transfer of the patient to our hospital.
After application of ECMO, the patient presented a clear and sudden desaturation that required orotracheal intubation.
Upon admission to our ICU, due to the maintenance of a minimal ventricular ejection fraction and the aortic orifice, inotropic support was gradually reduced and finally withdrawn to avoid an adrenergic stimulation of the myocardium.
An EMB was performed and a venous catheter was placed in the right jugular vein due to persistent severe hypoxemia, which went from AEC-AVO to AEC-AVO.
LV activity progressively returned to normal values on day 5, when ECMO and aortic counterpulsation balloon were removed.
Twelve days after the removal of the CEMI, the patient suddenly presented a gram-negative pneumonia (Pseudo aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumoniae) and died of septic shock within a few hours, without any alteration in the LV activity.
