A 64-year-old man of ethnicity has lived in Wuhan city.
She had no history of hypertension, diabetes, or cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease.
The patient had fever on January 28, 2020, with a maximum temperature of 38.5 °C and mild cough.
Symptomatic treatment resulted in coughing, with temperature ranging from 37.5 °C to 38 °C, returning to normal on January 30.
On January 20, the patient suffered from insomnia and myalgias throughout the body, without significant pain due to constipation.
After a medical consultation on February 9, she was placed in quarantine; during the consultation she was conscious and oriented and could answer all questions correctly.
On February 10, the patient was lethargic and hyporeactive.
Emergency blood tests yielded the following results: leukocyte count 3.3 x 10 9/L, with 24.4% lymphocytes, 62.8% neutrophils and a C-reactive protein value of 10.74 mg/L.
Cranial CT scan showed no relevant anomalies, whereas thoracic CT scan revealed several ground glass opacities with fibrotic cord sounds in both lungs.
In addition, the pharyngeal smears performed on February 11 indicated that the patient was positive for 2019-nCoV and then was admitted to a hospital.
Upon admission, the patient's vital signs were stable, with a pulse oximetry without spasm and pulse oximetry with constant spasms using a nasal cannula (5 L/min) of 88% and 98%, respectively.
Neurological examination revealed that the patient showed deterioration of mental status, alternating between lethargy and irritability.
Their answers to questions were incorrect, with contextualized discrimination.
The two lower extremities showed positive foot cloth, more pronounced in the left limb.
The left lower limb showed Babinski's sign and Chaddock's sign; the right limb, suspected Chaddock's sign.
The patient showed slight nuchal▁rigidity three fingers below the jaw and was positive for Brudzinski's sign and Lasègue's sign.
Upon admission, the patient received medicament with cyclophosphamide, arbidol and antiviral therapy with ribavirin, traditional Chinese medicine and symptomatic treatment.
On February 16, a lumbar puncture was performed: endocraneal pressure 200 cmH2O (coloured and normal cerebrospinal fluid); cell count 1 x 10 6/L; glucose 12314 mmol/L 275.5 mmol/L).
In addition, cerebrospinal fluid was negative for nucleic acid tests of 2019-nCoV.
Nucleic acid tests of 2019-nCoV (pharyngeal smears) were negative on February 18 and positive on February 21st.
On February 25, a chest CT scan showed a significant improvement in lung infection.
On neurological examination the same day, the patient was conscious and oriented, gave correct answers to the questions and showed normal intelligence.
The limb reflexes were relatively active, no longer foot cloth was observed in any of the two limbs and had positive pathological signs in the left lower limb, while they could not be determined in the right lower limb.
The neck was soft and depressible.
The patient was negative in two consecutive nucleic acid tests of 2019-nCoV (pharyngeal swabs), on February 25 and 27, and pulse oximetry was 99%.
The patient was discharged and sent to a quarantine facility where he stayed for 14 more days.
