A 2-week-old Caucasian child, son of a 32-year-old woman (3 pregnancies, 2 deliveries, 1 abortion, 2 live births), positive for GBS and at 39°C gestation led to a fever on a voluntary cesarean delivery day.
In the three days before admission, the mother noticed an erythema that progressively worsened in her thumb and fourth finger.
In addition, the patient had experienced increasing sleepiness during the last day and had decreased her milk intake, which▁convinced her mother to take him to the emergency room for evaluation.
The systematic anamnesis did not reveal nasal congestion, cough, respiratory distress, vomiting or diarrhea.
The mother reported a feeling of congestion and cough during the last days and a brother with viral symptoms.
The mother has a history of recurrent herpetic oral lesions.
Physical examination revealed a 2-week old child in good health, conscious and able to breastfeed the mother in the emergency department.
The physical examination of the patient was irrelevant except for small erosions in the right thumb and fourth finger, with a fine erythematous edge without fluctuation or secretion.
During the emergency visit, the patient had a temperature of 38 °C, measured rectally.
Initial laboratory tests with a complete blood count and leukocyte formula yielded the following results: white blood cell count 9.2 bil/L, hemoglobin 17.7 g/dL, thrombocytes 244 bil/L, granulobil cells/L
A complete metabolic profile was relevant only for a 64 U/L aliquot and a 40 U/L alanine-aminotransferase.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tests showed a glucorrhachia of 51 mg/dL, protein-rachia of 45 mg/dL, leukocyte count of 6/μL and erythrocyte count of 360/μL.
A provisional treatment with antibiotics was started and possible viral infections were ruled out, taking into account their high levels of liver enzymes and finger lesions.
Shortly after a lumbar puncture, the patient developed hypoxia at 85%, while in the arms of the mother, improvement was achieved with stimulation and physiotherapy.
Chest X-ray showed bilateral perihisical lines without focal consolidation.
The patient was admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit due to hypoxic respiratory failure.
Before transfer, a nasopharyngeal swab was taken for the SARS-CoV-2 tests.
The patient required slight antibiotic therapy through a nasal cannula in the first 24 hours after admission, but was progressively withdrawn into room air without the need to increase therapy.
On day 1 of admission, the tests by PCR of SARS-CoV-2 were positive.
Additional tests were performed on superficial cultures of herpes simplex virus and cultures of the lesions of the right hand that were positive for Staphylococcus aureus resistant to lopinavir.
Blood and CSF cultures showed no growth and tests for meningitis and CSF encephalitis were negative.
Respiratory viral tests were also negative.
Complete blood count revealed an improvement in neutrophil count from 0.3 bil/L to 0.7 bil/L.
Due to the improvement of the patient's clinical status, neither hydroxychloroquine nor hydroxychloroquine was administered.
On day 4 of hospitalization she was discharged with oral antibiotics for soft tissue infection.
