A 44-year-old African-American woman came to the emergency department with fever, vomiting, cough and fossa pain.
He had an acute kidney injury with serum creatinine of 4.0 mg/dl, which was added to a chronic kidney disease already diagnosed.
Initial urine analysis was positive for blood, with a protein/creatinine ratio of▁3.9 g/g.
His baseline serum creatinine, measured 6 months before the first consultation, was 1.4 mg/dl.
The reference urine analysis before the first consultation showed protein 2þ, with no available result of the point protein/creatinine ratio.
Her past medical history included poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus, essential hypertension, dyslipidemia, and chronic nephropathy attributed to diabetes.
The patient had a history of cesarean section and cholecystectomy.
I had never smoked.
Having consumed alcohol or drugs
On physical examination, the patient's temperature was 38.9 °C, her blood pressure was 140/90 mmHg, and her pulse was 107 l.p.m.
respiratory rate was 18▁rpm.
; respiration was in environmental air.
He was sick, but conscious and alert.
No sinus pain was detected, but pharyngeal erythema was clear, without cervical lymphadenopathy.
On auscultation, the lungs were normal.
The heart sounds were normal, with no murmurs.
The abdomen was blandom and depressible, with a mildly painful renal percussion and intestinal noises.
There was no erythema, tenderness or joint effusion and no rash.
Capillary filling time was two seconds for all fingers.
No fovea edema was observed in the extremities.
Mood and affection were stable and coherent.
The patient had anemia and electrolyte disturbances.
In addition, serological tests for hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV were negative.
Additional serological tests for C3 and C4 were normal.
A chest X-ray showed subsegmental atelectasis and mild right pleural effusion.
A renal ultrasound showed normal-sized kidneys without evidence of obstructive uropathy.
The differential diagnosis at admission was septic syndrome, pyelonephritis and COVID-19.
Fluids were started IV, as well as ceftriaxone and vancomycin.
A complete study of the renal lesion was ordered.
The patient was sent to the hospital ward for treatment and management.
During the course of 5 days, the patient suffered from disorientation and respiratory distress, which triggered the implementation of physiotherapy.
Maintain saturation at 2 to 3 l/min with a nasal cannula.
A follow-up chest X-ray showed the first appearance of diffuse bilateral patchy opacities.
Antibiotic treatment was changed from ceftriaxone to cefepime.
The patient's renal function deteriorated during the same period and she was placed on dialysis on day 8 of hospitalization, with a serum creatinine of 11.4 mg/dl, despite good diuresis (> 1 l/d).
The point protein/creatinine ratio at the time of dialysis was 25 g/g.
A complete autoimmune analysis was positive for antigen A associated with Sjögren's syndrome and antinuclear antibodies.
The rheumatologic evaluation showed no clinical signs of Sjögren's syndrome.
▁Cytoplasmic antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies were negative and C3 and C4 tests were normal.
All hemocultives and urocultives were negative, pending the trial by PCR for COVID-19.
A renal biopsy was performed to evaluate the etiology of the patient's nephropathy.
A diagnosis of collapsing glomerulopathy was reached.
Shortly after the biopsy, the PCR tests for COVID-19 were positive.
The clinical status of the patient improved clearly with dialysis.
His disorientation disappeared, and he was no longer treated with medication.
The patient continued with good diuresis, although without good clearance, which required subsequent outpatient hemodialysis.
