A 78-year-old woman, with no known medical history, presented with fever, worsening of her general condition, abdominal pain in the epigastric area and diarrhea for 8 days.
He came to the emergency service when dyspnea was present.
Initially, the patient was hemodynamically stable (blood pressure: 168/89 mmHg), showed symptoms of acute respiratory failure with polypnea (22 cycles per minute with oxygen saturation of 86% in room air) and tachycardia (100 l.p.m.
Blood analysis revealed an increase in C-reactive protein (125 mg/L), hyperleucocytosis (12.600/mm3) andâ–lymphocytic colitis.
Lactic acidosis associated colitis (pH 7.43 mmol/L) was associated with hypercholesterolemia.
The PCR of nasopharyngeal swabs was negative for SARS-CoV-2.
Two hours after admission, a non-contrast-enhanced chest CT scan showed typical signs of COVID-19 pneumonia (usually ground glass opacities without radiological evidence of another infection) with significant pulmonary involvement (> 75%).
The sections of the upper abdomen showed hyperdensity spontaneous units Hounsfield (HU) vs. 38 HU in the portal vein) in the right portal vein.
A complementary examination with thoracic, abdominal and pelvic CT with contrast in the arterial and portal phases, performed at the same time, confirmed a thrombosis of the right portal vein caused by thrombosis of the distal part of the trunk is extended mesenteric vein.
Proximal thrombosis of the superior mesenteric artery and thrombosis of the jejunal artery were also observed, with characteristics underlying ischemia of the cecum and small intestine with a small amount of fluid in the peritoneal cavity.
No pulmonary embolism was observed.
Laparotomy was performed a few hours later, which confirmed ischemia and eliminated one meter of ileum and necrotic right colon.
In the same intervention, a thrombolysis and a superior mesenteric artery thromboectomy were also performed.
Despite being treated in time, the patient's condition remained precarious due to generalized intestinal ischemia, in addition to the severe pulmonary lesions caused by COVID-19.
Palliative care was initiated and the patient died 4 days later.
