A 59-year-old Caucasian man presented with no evidence of cardiovascular risk factors or pharmacological treatment prior to hospitalization.
She was admitted with fever that did not respond to paracetamol and dyspnea for 10 days.
Physical examination revealed tachycardia (pulse 112 l.p.m.
), hypotension (90/50 mmHg) and severe hypoxemia.
A serial 12-lead electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia with no ST-segment elevation/depression or other electrical pathways suggesting myocardial failure. A chest X-ray showed signs of severe interstitial pneumonia, with changes suggestive of GSA-2.
The echocardiogram showed normal results.
Because of severe ARDS resistant to non-invasive mechanical ventilation, the patient underwent endotracheal intubation (ETI) and a nasal RT-PCR was subsequently performed in an isolation room of the intensive care unit (ICU), confirmed the infection.
After a few days of mechanical ventilation, the patient suffered a sudden cardiac arrest followed, after resuscitation, by acute hemodynamic deterioration.
An emergency echocardiogram showed a severe alteration of the right heart cavities, indicative of acute pulmonary embolism.
Due to the rapid worsening of the hemodynamic status, no chest CT was performed and the patient was immediately admitted to our cardiac operating room.
Medium sized stenosis was removed, with bicaval venous and central aortic catheterization, and a large thrombus was removed from the right atrium and left and right main pulmonary arteries.
Complete removal of thrombi led to rapid improvement in systolic pressure in the pulmonary artery.
The intervention was performed with 59 minutes of cardioplegic parus with mild hypothermia.
The patient was treated with hydroxychloroquine sulfate and darunavir and co-medication.
At 32 days of follow-up, the patient was hemodynamically stable without inotropic support and was transferred from the ICU to the general hospital ward, with spontaneous ventilation.
SARS-CoV-2 infection was installed as confirmed by two RT-PCR tests from nasal swabs.
