A 58-year-old woman complained of fatigue, fever and diarrhea for five days.
Physical examination revealed diffuse roncus.
The initial vital signs were: blood pressure 156/95 mmHg, pulse 130 l.p.m., oxygen saturation 82% with a 5L nasal cannula, respiratory rate 24 r.p.m., temperature 38.7 °C.
Chest radiography revealed bilateral infiltrates predominantly in the lower lobe.
Shortly after, she was intubated due to hypoxic respiratory failure and possible acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
The electrocardiogram (ECG) showed sinus tachycardia and elevation of the ascending ST segment in I and aVL, mild diffuse decrease of the PR segment and diffuse changes of the ST segment and the T wave. Troponin I was negative at 11,02
The presence of leukocyte (absolute lymphocyte count 1.04 K/cu mm) should be highlighted.
The RNA tests by PCR of SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) were positive.
The patient had a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and dyslipidemia.
He said he hadn't traveled, but I point out his father was sick with similar symptoms.
Taking into account the clinical picture, the electrophysiological findings and the increase in troponin, the differential diagnosis consisted of myocardial infarction with ST segment elevation (STEMI), stress cardiomyopathy and myocarditis initially diagnosed.
A transthoracic echocardiogram revealed apical, anterolateral, anteroseptal and anterior mid-to-distal akinetic segments, moderately hypokinetic medial and distal inferolateral segments and hyperdynamic basal segments.
Apical bulging was also observed.
The fraction of the LV explant was 20%.
The third distal/apical free septum of the right ventricle (RV) was akinetic, with basal movement of the hyperdynamic RV septum.
RV activity was slightly reduced.
The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit.
The echocardiogram results were the classic ones of Takotsubo syndrome or stress cardiomyopathy, and as the distribution of septal motion abnormalities did not seem to correspond to the ECG results or to the STEMI increase.
Taking into account COVID-19 infection, it was decided to postpone coronary angiography again.
However, pharmacological treatment was initiated for acute coronary syndrome with dual platelet aggregation therapy and anticoagulant therapy with i.v. heparin.
"continuous."
For COVID-19, treatment with hydroxychloroquine was initiated but was subsequently withdrawn after echocardiography due to the possible risk of worsening of cardiomyopathy and prolonged QT treatment; the treatment was completed.
Clinically, the patient presented a shock, probably cardiogenic/septic with a central venous oxygen saturation of 42%, and required dobutamine.
During the following days, cardiogenic shock improved, with central venous saturation of 65% and decreased dobutamine requirements.
Six days later, the echocardiogram was repeated, which showed an improvement in global septal motion and an EF of 55% of the LV.
From the rapid improvement observed in the follow-up echocardiogram, her cardiac condition appeared more consistent with stress cardiomyopathy in the context of an infection by COVID-19.
This diagnosis was supported by ECG, which did not reveal evidence of Q-wave myocardial infarction.
