An 82-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency department with fever and▁malaise for 5 days.
She took oral medication and amoxicillin/clavulanate without any improvement.
He was a former smoker with a history of hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
On admission, he showed severe respiratory failure (PaO2/FiO2 55 mmHg, respiratory rate 26 r.p.m.)
High-flow physiotherapy
A lung ultrasound showed diffuse B-lines with pleural thickening and small subpleural consolidations.
A chest CT and nasopharyngeal swab confirmed the diagnosis of COVID-19 pneumonia.
Antibiotics were withdrawn and treatment with darunavir/coworker, hydroxychloroquine and LMWH was started at a preventive dose.
On day 12 after admission, the patient complained of pain in her right side and a feeling of heat.
She reported no chest pain or dyspnea (PaO2/FiO2 > 300 mmHg with nasal glasses).
Physical examination revealed right side edema and signs of disorientation.
A compressive ultrasound of the proximal portion of the right femoral vein indicated venous thrombosis.
A lung ultrasound showed multiple consolidations biphasic.
Echocardiography revealed normal ventricular function with no indirect signs of pulmonary embolism.
The inferior vena cava was totally collapsed, indicating hypovolemia.
An electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed sinus tachycardia.
Blood tests showed high levels of fibrinogen (24.131 mg/dl), fibrinogen (674 mg/dl), serum ferritin (765 ng/ml) and troponin I (57 ng/ml).
As creatinine clearance was ≤ 30 ml/min, non-controlled heparin IV was initiated.
Local monitoring of partial thromboplastin time (PTT).
The patient underwent a thoracic CT scan that showed diffuse bilateral consolidations and a patchy pattern (visual index CAT 70%).
From these results, we introduced systemic corticosteroids.
The patient improved progressively with complete resolution of acute renal failure after infusion of crystalloid; only low-flow ̄s therapy solution was administered.
After 3 days, heparin infusion was changed to a standard dose of LMWH (enoxaparin).
