A 51-year-old man was referred to our hospital on April 2, 2020 with progressive weakness in the lower and upper limbs and acral paresthesia of two days duration.
She also reported intermittent fever and flu-like symptoms with clear fatigue and dry cough for the past two weeks.
On clinical examination, considerable tetraparesis was observed, with muscle strength in extremities between 2/5 and 4/5 (in the Medical Research Council scale), as well as generalized areflexia.
Vital signs were stable.
On admission, a low-dose chest CT scan revealed bilateral interstitial infiltrates typical of COVID-19 pneumonia.
COVID-19 infection was later confirmed by a positive PCR test for SARS-CoV-2 from a pharyngeal smear.
On admission, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) revealed mild pleocytosis (9 cells/μl), normal protein value and negative PCR for SARS-CoV-2.
Antibodies against old serum sickness were negative.
An electroneurogram on the day after admission showed prolonged distal motor latencies (left median nerve 8.4 ms; left tibial nerve 11.6 ms) and loss of F waves suggesting peripheral demyelination.
Due to a rapid worsening of the pulmonary gas exchange, the patient denied endotracheal intubation on the second day of admission.
After stabilization of the lung, an ostomy was performed on day 7 of admission and an attempt was made to remove assisted respiration.
Despite treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins.
(30 g per day for 5 days, starting at admission), the neurological status worsened to an almost total peripheral enclosure syndrome, with tetraplegia, complete hypoesthesia in all the extremities, bilateral respiratory failure and sublingual respiratory failure.
Taking into account the fulminant neurological evolution, plasmapheresis therapy was started on day 13 of admission (total 14 treatments).
Just before starting plasmapheresis, a second CSF sample was obtained, which showed a clear increase in proteins (10,231 mg/l; normal range up to 450 mg/l) without pleocytosis.
On day 14 after admission, a spinal MRI showed a large symmetrical contrast enhancement in the roots of the spinal nerves in all segments of the spine, including the horsetail.
It should be noted that the anterior and posterior nerve roots showed the same involvement.
MRI (T1-weighted sequences after gadolinium application) showed symmetrical enhancement of the anterior and posterior roots in the cervical spine and in the horsetail.
31 days after admission, the patient was referred to a specialized rehabilitation clinic.
At that time, he showed signs of motor improvement with sublingual and regressive facial paresis, but still needed mechanical ventilation.
