A 66-year-old woman presented with a 72-hour history of difficulty walking and acute fatigue. She had had a history of fever and cough ten days before, with spontaneous resolution of the fever after a few days.
He also reported a transient pruriginous dorsal exanthema, but had no gastrointestinal symptoms or relevant medical history, except for mild hypertension treated with beta-blockers.
A lung CT scan showed bilateral ground opacities, but the first rhinopharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 was negative; blood tests and initial gas glass were anodyne.
On examination, the patient was paraparesis, with a symmetrical weakness of rapid progression in the lower limbs, which caused falls and paraplegia.
He also presented distal weakness in the upper limbs (score 4/5 on the Medical Research Council scale) and diffuse areflexia, but without clear sensory deficits.
A lumbar puncture was performed and showed typical albuminocytological imbalance (0 cells/uL, 108 mg/dL protein), which led to the immediate start of treatment with IV immunoglobulin.
(0.4 g/kg for 5 days) with suspected diagnosis of GBS.
Ten days after the onset of symptoms, a nerve conduction study revealed the absence of F waves with diffuse long distal motor latencies and a reduction in the amplitudes of the compound muscular action potential distal reduction, with a non-myelinated sensory nerve.
No SARS-CoV-2 was detected in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), while serological tests were not available at that time; no antiglucolipid antibodies were detected.
However, the patient had been admitted to a respiratory function unit with ritonavir, maintaining that her second smear was positive for SARS-CoV-2, so that a combination of antiretroviral therapy and hydroxyl therapy was initiated (lopinavir).
However, the woman did not show any improvement by previous treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins.
and presented progressive weakness in all limbs, dysesthesia and unilateral facial paralysis.
He also failed to respond to treatment for transient episodes of disorientation with psychomotor skills.
In addition, gas exchange worsened, with sudden desaturation requiring intubation and admission to the intensive care unit, where she was treated for multiorgan failure, deep venous thrombosis and superimposed bacterial infection.
