An 83-year-old nonsmoker woman came to our hospital on March 12, 2020 with fever,▁malaise, headache, dry cough and dyspnea.
She had a history of intermittent asthma, treated with an inhaled corticosteroid (two cases of mild mitral regurgitation affecting the mitral valve between moderate and severe, and ulcerative colitis, adequately controlled on oral administration of budesonide (3 mg/00).
His symptoms had started two weeks before the first consultation, shortly after a trip from Florida a laytts, and had not improved with amoxicillin and clavulanate.
In the emergency room, the patient had a fever of 39.3 °C and 86% in room air, which improved to 95% with fever using nasal cannula at 5 minute saturation.
Initial laboratory tests showed leukocytosis and relative▁lymphocytic leukemia (absolute lymphocyte count 1090 cells/microliter).
A chest CT scan was notable for diffuse bilateral ground-glass opacities with patchy bands of atelectasis and small nodular nuclei of consolidation, with a distribution suggestive of viral pneumonia.
Mild cystic alterations were also observed in the affected regions.
She was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and placed under strict isolation, considering a possible hospital-acquired infection by SARS-CoV-2.
He presented worsening of tachypnea with respiratory rate of 40▁rpm.
e hypoxia with an 80% oxygen saturation, which required physiotherapy using a mask with reservoir at a rate of 15 L/min.
Arterial blood gas analysis revealed a partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO2) of 63 mm Hg with steroid therapy at 15 L/min.
The patient was intubated due to hypoxemic respiratory failure and maintained on assisted breathing with the current low volume protocol ARDSNet.
The PaO2/FiO2 ratio ( PaO2 ratio and the fraction of oxygen [FiO2]) was consistent with a moderate ARDS.
Extensive complementary tests for viral, bacterial and fungal organisms confirmed the diagnosis of infection by SARS-CoV-2, from the detection of RNA of SARS-CoV-2 in a nasopharyngeal swab.
In addition, the value of (1.3)-β-D-glucan serum was clearly high, with 305 pg/mL (reference value < 80 pg/mL), which implied a positive PCR °T for P. jirove positivity
In addition, it did not show apparent clinical features associated with a false positive in the determination of (1,3)-β-D-glucan, such as exposure to haemodialysis membranes, intravenous immunoglobulin, intravenous albumin dressings or beta antibiotics.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1/2 antibody test was negative.
However, the CD4+ T lymphocyte count was low, with 291 cells/microliter (reference value 441-2156 cells/microliter), as well as the CD4+/CD30+ ratio 1.20; 1.18.
The patient was treated with trimethoprim-methoprim-methotoxazole (TMP/SMX) and was discharged on day 7 of hospitalization.
The serum (1,3)-β-D-glucan value obtained one week after starting treatment was significantly reduced (90 pg/mL).
In addition, the CD4+ T lymphocyte count ten days after the initial consultation showed an improvement (730 cells/microliter).
