On March 17, a 48-year-old man came to the emergency department of the Hospital Policlinic of Bari (Pulla, Italy), with fever, cough, dyspnea and hypoxia of 6 days of evolution.
The physical examination showed normal vital signs, but due to 90% of the cases in ambient air, she received continuous vital ventilation therapy at 6 minutes (Venturi mask 31%).
The patient did not report any predisposing diseases such as diabetes, hypertension or cardiovascular diseases.
Due to the suspicion of COVID-19, he was immediately admitted to the «gray zone» of internal medicine at the Hospital Polyclinic for COVID «Asclepios».
The chest X-ray showed pneumonia (multiple bilateral thickenings with poorly defined borders and more evident consolidation on the right side).
Real-time PCR of nasopharyngeal swab March 18 revealed the presence of SARS-CoV-2.
The virus was detected by a real-time PCR test targeting E,dRP and N genes. The patient had a severe form of the disease due to the presence of fever, respiratory symptoms PaO2/FiO2 < 300 and pneumonia signs.
She was treated with oxygen at various volumes (up to 60% FiO2 VM), lopinavir/ritonavir (200/50 mg, 2 tablets ×2/day), hydroxychloroquine (400 mg twice daily in the first day and 200 mg twice daily).
In the follow-up after 6 days, the chest X-ray showed a slight improvement in the affections.
After 14 days, the patient developed a fever and his respiratory symptoms disappeared.
The chest X-ray only revealed diffuse areas of parenchymal thickening.
Our hospital required two consecutive negative molecular tests for SARS-CoV-2, with more normal temperature, resolution of respiratory symptoms and improvement of lung images.
Both nasopharyngeal swabs collected on March 30 and 31 were negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Consequently, the patient was discharged and it was recommended to keep a quarantine at home for at least 14 days.
Molecular tests were also negative at his follow-up visit on April 15, suggesting that the patient had healed from COVID-19.
In addition, two serological tests (VivaDiagTM, VivaChek Laboratories, INC, EE.
Anti SARS-CoV-2 ELISA IgG Test, Euroimmun, Lübeck, Germany) revealed the presence of IgM and IgG anti-SARS-CoV-2.
However, on April 30, she presented new symptoms, with dyspnea and chest pain.
He went to the emergency department again, where he was admitted to the same room with suspected pulmonary embolism, confirmed by CT.
The image showed the presence of segmental and subsegmental signs of arterial microembolism, with some areas of ground glass opacities.
Due to his recent clinical history, a molecular test of SARS-CoV-2 was performed, with a positive result.
In addition, serological tests revealed only the presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG.
To date, the patient is in good health, with no need for anticoagulant therapy.
