A 52-year-old woman came to our▁dermatological clinic with erythematous pruritic lesions on her extremities and clefts on her lips and oral mucosa.
He had no flu-like symptoms or fever.
She had been treated in a dental clinic 3 days before (day -3) and antibiotics (cefcapene) and AINE loxoprofen were prescribed.
Erythematous lesions and cleft lips appeared two days later (day -1).
His blood count was normal.
Skin lesions were diagnosed as drug eruption (day 0).
Anatomopathological analysis of a skin biopsy obtained from a hardened erythematous lesion of the cyst revealed a slight liquefaction with mixed perivascular and perianexical cellular dermis ranging from deep papillary dermis.
Deep▁lymphocytic disorders are not common in eruptive patients.
Lymphocyte stimulation tests were performed for cefcapene (stimulation index: 151%) and loxoprofen (stimulation index: 300%).
An oral prednisolone (20 mg/day) regimen was immediately initiated to treat worsening of oral lesions.
On day 2 a well-defined erythematous infiltrated the trunk was observed.
Limbs fixed on the lower lips and buccal mucosa gradually improved.
Prednisolone was reduced to 10 mg/day.
Five days after decreasing prednisolone (day 7), the patient returned to our clinic with high fever, cough, chills, fatigue and dyspnea.
He did not report traveling, but worked in a health center for the elderly.
A CT scan showed mild ground glass opacities in the lower lung lobes.
Blood tests revealed a high number of leukocytes (22,300/l), with▁lymphocytic (490//l) and an increase in neutrophils (20,449//l), high levels of C-reactive protein (12,8 mg/dl).
▁Pneumonia was diagnosed and admitted to a plant of infectious diseases with suspected COVID-19.
Lymphocyte is a worsening factor of COVID-19.
On admission (day 7), her erythematous lesions worsened rapidly.
Severe infection led us to withdraw oral prednisolone and initiate an ampicillin/sulphonamide regimen and clarithromycin.
On day 8, new macular▁papules and erythematous lesions appeared on the face and trunk, with petechiae.
A biopsy of a hardened erythematous lesion of the abdominal skin was obtained.
Anatomopathological analysis revealed interfacial changes with liquefaction and mixed cellular perivascular malformations, with histiocytes and neutrophils in the papillary dermis.
Ampicillin/sulphate was changed to levofloxacin.
On day 10, erythematous lesions reached their peak and gradually pigmented.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis for COVID-19 on day 1 of admission was negative, but a CAT scan showed progression of ground glass opacities.
A second PCR for COVID-19 was positive on day 3 of admission and the patient was diagnosed with COVID-19 and referred to an intensive care unit of another hospital.
