An 8-year-old boy, otherwise healthy, of African origin (height 130 cm, weight 29 kg) came to our hospital with fever, cough, weight loss and extreme tiredness for 4 days.
Physical examination revealed fever (39.6 °C) and a painful, swollen▁caloric erythema with lymphadenopathy on the right side of the neck.
She was diagnosed with colitis, which was confirmed by ultrasound; she was hospitalized for intravenous antibiotic administration.
A few hours after admission, the patient developed tachycardia (138 l.p.m.
), hypotension (94/40 mmHg) resistant to i.v. injection.
associated with hepatomegaly and oliguria.
Blood tests showed elevated C-reactive protein (myocardial creatinine) levels (high levels), leucocytes (4260 IU/mm3) with lymphocyte count (400/mm3), thrombocytopenia (118,000/mm3), and glutathione deficiency (thione peroxidase
A two-dimensional echocardiogram revealed anatomic cardiac characteristics normal left ventricular dysfunction (pulmonary hypertension with significant mitral regurgitation 21%) and evidence of a small pericardial effusion, with no evidence of left ventricular dilation, myocardial hypertrophy or pericardial effusion.
The electrocardiogram was relevant due to a mild ST elevation in V3, consistent with pericarditis.
The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit, received anticoagulants, enoxaparin, and was treated with dobutamine, which rapidly normalized his blood pressure and restored diuresis.
He also received oxygen to help heart activity.
Follow-up analyses showed a rapid increase in inflammatory markers (maximal CRP: 151 mg/L, interleukin 6 max: 1023 pg/mL, ferritin max: 2869 ng/mL), progression of renal cytolysis max: 70
A cardiac MRI performed on day 3 confirmed biventricular systolic dysfunction (fraction of the signs of LV edema: 41%, RV lateral exocardial effusion: 46%) with mild pericardial effusion, mild diffuse gadolinium enhancement septum.
His chest X-ray on day 3 showed bilateral lung disease in the lower lobes, with bilateral pleural effusion, without ground glass opacities.
A nasopharyngeal smear obtained at admission was positive for SARS-CoV-2 by real-time RT-PCR.
In addition, a PCR of stools collected on day 6 also gave positive results (gen N1 to 39 CT and RdPR gene to 39 CT).
The patient had high levels of Ig A and Ig G in serum samples of day 6 (Ig A: 8.39; Ig G: 10.90, using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit).
Tests for other cardiotropic pathogens were negative (PCR of nasopharyngeal swabs for adenovirus, coronavirus NL63, 229E, OC43 and HKU1, enterovirus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae parculológica; virus19).
She received IV immunoglobulins.
(2 g/kg in two days).
Dobutamine (max: 8.5 μg/kg/min) was withdrawn at day two, sustained by milrinone (max: 0.6 μg/kg/min) until day 3.
Since COVID-19 was rapidly confirmed and the patient had a potentially fatal condition associated with a massive inflammatory crisis taking into account the IL-6 value, tocilizumab was administered (2 doses of 8 mg/kg COID-19 according to national guidelines).
Surprisingly, cervical cellulitis disappeared after the first dose of tocilizumab, which was well tolerated without adverse effects until discharge.
It could be that the cellulitis was a▁dermatological characteristic of COVID-19.
Follow-up cardiac MRI performed one week later showed normal systolic activity and regression of myocardial edema.
The patient was discharged on day 10, with normal cardiac activity and normalization of abnormalities he had.
