A 72-year-old man with a history of hypertension and hyperlipidemia came to the emergency department with dyspnea, fever and chills, of approximately one week duration.
He had received symptomatic outpatient treatment with high respiratory rate possible infection of the airways; then he was positive in a COVID-19 test.
On admission, her vital signs were temperature (T) 36.7 °C, pulse 91 l.p.m., respiratory rate 28 r.p.m., blood pressure 120/78 mmHg.
A hydroxychloroquine regimen was initiated.
A chest X-ray showed minimal biphasic and poorly defined opacities.
Initial arterial gas sequestration was relevant due to a partial arterial oxygen pressure (PaO2) of 53 mmHg and peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2) of 88% in room air.
Minimal improvement was observed with antibiotic therapy using a nasal cannula; 50% Venturi mask was applied.
On day 2 of hospitalization, the patient showed increasing difficulty in breathing, with saturation in the lower range of 80, so that he was transferred to a high-flow nasal cannula at 60% and 40 L/min.
In the following days, the patient did not improve and oxygen was administered at 100% and 60 L/min to maintain SpO2 above 90.
With increasing dyspnea and fatigue and SpO2 around 85, despite maximum support with a high flow cannula, on day 8 of hospitalization, it was decided to intubate the patient.
Two days later, the tapering had not improved despite maximal assisted breathing with pressure-release ventilation, prone position and paralysis.
The PaO2/FiO2 ratio (P/F) was between 51 and 72.
Due to his age, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) could not be applied and it was decided to start treatment with tPA.
The values of Dynecologic and fibrinogen prior to treatment were 2.16 ug/mL and 654 mg/dL, respectively.
About 24 hours after the infusion of APt, its P/F ratio increased to 76 (69 treatment) and its preconditioning requirements decreased to an FiO2 of 80%.
The mental retardation increased initially to 9.57 ug/mL.
If the P/F ratio continued to increase daily, with increasingly lower oxygen requirements; day 5 post-treatment reached 121, an increase of 175% compared to pre-treatment values.
The mental retardation decreased to 1.9 ug/mL.
Assisted respiration was reduced from pressure-release ventilation to pressure-controlled ventilation pressure with guaranteed volume and paralysis was eliminated.
On day 8 post-treatment, pressure requirements decreased to 18 and its P/F ratio increased to 127.
On day 12 post-treatment, the patient successfully passed a CPP test and the next day he could be extubated and transferred to a high-flow nasal cannula.
Subsequently, the patient was transferred to a facility with medicament via nasal cannula.
