The patient is a twin born at 32+6 weeks due to preeclampsia, with a slight anomaly in the auricular septum (< 4 mm) and cleft palate.
At birth, he was intubated before progressive withdrawal of assisted respiration in one week.
At 37+3 weeks of corrected gestational age, she presented dyspnea at home and was taken to the hospital.
It should be noted that she had recently had contact with family members and asymptomatic health professionals, who subsequently had symptoms and were confirmed to be infected with SARS-CoV-2.
In the emergency department, progressive hypoxia led to several failed intubation attempts.
Nasopharyngeal aspirates were positive for SARS-CoV-2 by PCR.
Location and ventilation were maintained by laryngeal mask during transfer to a specialized care center for otorhinolaryngological intervention.
She was successfully intubated in the operating room by microlaryngoscopy; all the staff wore appropriate personal protective equipment.
Significant glottic inflammation and abundant secretion of the airways were observed.
Moderate initial respiratory pressures and FiO2 0.6 were progressively reduced for 3 days.
The initial chest X-ray showed mild bilateral ground glass opacities.
The C-reactive protein was 42 mg/L and▁lymphocytic colitis was detected (1.45 x 10*9/L), with the rest of the normal values.
A series of tracheal aspirates and urine and stool cultures excluded bacterial or fungal coinfections.
A thrombus in the femoral artery associated with the pathway was treated with anticoagulants.
After several days of assisted laryngeal breathing, the parameters improved and extubation could be attempted.
The multidisciplinary team decided to use standard preventive▁steroids to optimize laryngeal conditions at extubation, especially considering the previous difficulties of intubation.
Two preventive doses of dexamethasone were administered.
Before extubation, the patient worsened, with fulminant ARDS and associated worsening on chest X-ray.
Conventional assisted respiration was not used and the patient required high frequency ventilation, nitric oxide, ventilation in prone position, and inotropic support to maintain the oscillating and ventilation.
It was considered ECMO but it was not necessary.
A possible bacterial superinfection was treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics and was ruled out from bronchoalveolar lavage, performed with safety measures with individual protection equipment.
Considering the potentially fatal worsening, an urgent multidisciplinary team met, which, through videoconference, reviewed innovative therapies with the bioethics team and the patient's parents.
As there were few tests for hypercholesterolemia (IL6 < 50g/ml, ferritin 411 ug/L), antiviral therapy was preferred to immunomodulation.
It was agreed to request compassionate use of remdesivir.
An initial dose of 5 mg/kg was administered followed by a maintenance dose of 1.25 mg/kg for 10 days.
IL10 showed an increase (110 pg/ml) but normalized at day 5 of treatment.
C-reactive protein peaked at 63 mg/L on day 6, ferritin at 789 on day 9, and dementia reached 1143 ug/L on day 10.
Daily tracheal aspirates for MRSA-CoV-2 PCR were negative 5 days after administration of remdesivir, excluding one positive isolate at day 10.
No adverse reactions were observed.
The maximum troponin value was 138 ng/L.
No clinical signs or symptoms of myocarditis were observed.
Echocardiography on day 7 of the disease showed only a small oval hole with communication between left and right, mild dilation of the structures on the left side and mild mitral regurgitation.
Respiratory and inotropic support were progressively reduced and the patient was successfully extubated on day 18 of disease.
She was discharged for home transfer.
