A 35-year-old woman with no relevant past medical history attended the emergency department of the Hospital de la Fundación Jiménez Díaz (Madrid) on April 14, with purpuric acral lesions.
They had appeared as edematous and erythematous areas concurrent with fever and cough, which lasted only two days.
There was no history of diarrhea, ageism, hyposmia or dyspnea.
The patient reported that after standing for a while the skin of her feet was blue.
On physical examination, the pedal pulse was not palpable and there could be evidence of zones of the feet on the dorsum of several fingers of both.
An ultrasound ruled out vascular thrombosis.
A RT-PCR assay for SARS-CoV-2 from nasopharyngeal swabs and an immunochromatographic assay for IgG and IgM serum antibodies, performed on the same day, were negative.
A skin biopsy performed in the emergency department showed mild perivascular and periadnexal▁lymphocytic inflammation and focal microvascular thrombosis.
Mild erythrocyte extravasation and auxiliary evidence of endothelial lesions were observed, but no obvious vasculitis was observed.
Median a commercial kit (SARS-CoV/SARS-CoV-2 spike 1A9, GeneTex Inc., Irvine, California, USA).
U.S.
), optimized in our laboratory, viral spike proteins were clearly detected by conventional immunohistochemistry, in the form of granular red deposits and secretory vessels (small cells and cytoplasm), ecr.
Relevant negative and positive controls were carried out: adult tonsil, a sample of erythema pernio at the beginning of 2019, biopsies of inflammatory dermatoses not associated with COVID-19 and a positive sera-19m sera.
Perivascular deposits of C5b9, C3 and C1q were observed in an immunofluorescence study of paraffin-embedded tissue fixed with formalin.
Treatment was initiated with low molecular weight heparin and low dose aspirin. The lesions were cured and at the time of the last follow-up (7 June), the patient had recovered completely and her pedal pulse was palpable.
A second serological study (two months after the onset of the disease), this time by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), yielded negative results for IgG and IgM SARS-CoV-2.
