A 69-year-old man was admitted to the ICU due to epicardial effusion requiring endotracheal intubation, with 5 days of evolution and fever, cough and anosmia.
In tracheal aspirate, SARS-CoV-2 was detected by RT-PCR.
The antecedents were relevant for diabetes mellitus, hypertension and a crisis that had occurred one year earlier, associated with hyperglycemia and uncontrolled diabetes.
Upon admission to the ICU, the patient was treated with IV levetiracetam.
A brain CT scan did not yield relevant results; an electroencephalogram (EEG) showed rhythmic oxyoxyoxymoses at 1 Hz in the right frontal region, indicative of non-convulsive status▁epilepticus.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis did not show relevant results, with 1 leukocyte per millimeter CBC/L 18 mmol/L erythrocytes per millimeter CBC and/or protein and glucose levels of 0.66 mm, respectively.
A RT-PCR assay of CSF was negative for SARS-CoV-2.
All other tests for infectious agents and autoimmune diseases were negative in serum and CSF.
A brain MRI revealed hyperintensity of the right prefrontal▁orbital cortex adjacent to the olfactory bulb, which seemed to extend to the right middle prefrontal cortex and the right cauda nucleus.
No gadolinium enhancement was observed.
After a multidisciplinary analysis, treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins was administered.
at a dose of 2 g/kg.
On day 2, EEG showed persistent lateralized periodic discharges at short intervals (0.7-1.2 s) in the right frontal lobe.
The patient improved after one week, which allowed the removal of mechanical ventilation, but presented signs of frontal lobe syndrome, such as verbal perseveration and imitative behavior, and was stressed for several days after extubation.
MRI performed on day 15 showed the persistence of a clear hyperintensity in the right caudatid nucleus and a significant decrease in the hyperintensity of the prefrontal cortex.
MRI performed on day 30 was normal.
We concluded that initial hyperintensity on MRI was partly due to pericritic diffusion abnormalities.
