A 67-year-old man was admitted with fever, cough, nasal congestion, throat irritation and diarrhea, 20 months after a heart transplant without complications.
He was not hypoxic.
A chest CT scan showed multifocal bilateral peripheral ground glass opacities.
The leukocyte count was 4720/ml, with a lymphocyte count of 1040/ml.
Blood cultures and PCR for cytomegalovirus did not yield relevant results.
C-reactive protein was 0.55 mg/dl.
A PCR of nasopharyngeal swabs for SARS-CoV-2 was positive, consistent with COVID-19 disease.
The immunosuppression regimen consisted of 500 mg mycophenolate twice daily and tacrolimus at a minimum concentration of 7.6 ng/ml upon admission.
Mycophenolate was removed and tacrolimus was maintained at a target concentration of 7-10 ng/ml.
The patient continued with intermittent fever but did not develop hypoxia at any time.
A chest CT scan on day 6 showed worsening of ground glass opacities.
On day 7 a hydroxychloroquine regimen was started (400 mg twice daily on day 1 and then 200 mg twice daily for 4 days).
She was discharged on day 9.
She was admitted again after two days, with disorientation, anorexia and vomiting.
He was conscious, oriented only toward people, and febrile.
She had no history of confusional delirium or encephalopathy and was treated with venlaparin for depression.
Examination revealed intentional and postural tremor, with no focal neurological deficits.
The C-reactive protein value was high, with 10.7 mg/dl, and showed a slight elevation of the endothelium-aminotransferase and alanine-aminotransferase enzymes with 74 U/litre, respectively.
Serum sickness and TSH values were normal.
Serum sodium presented a low value of 133 millimeters/litre (normal range 135-145 millimeters/litre), but normal values were observed on day 2 of readmission.
Uric nitrogen and serum creatinine values were 42 mg/dl and 1.73 mg/dl, respectively, with no changes from baseline.
The minimum tacrolimus concentration upon readmission was 11.5 ng/ml, with a mean of 10 § 1.2 ng/ml during hospitalization.
Hydroxychloroquine was removed.
A head C.T.▁~~~ scan didn't give relevant results.
A chest CT scan showed minimal worsening of ground glass opacities.
Brain MRI showed mild foci of white matter ischemia subcortical and deep periventricular.
There was no evidence of encephalitis, posterior reversible encephalopathy or leukoencephalopathy.
A new MRI one week later showed no changes.
An electroencephalogram revealed mild diffuse and nonspecific multifocal cerebral alterations, with no evidence of seizures.
A lumbar puncture showed normal values of lymphocytes, proteins and glucose.
Cerebrospinal fluid analysis was negative in PCR for herpes simplex and cryptococcal antigens.
CSF PCR, not validated for detection of SARS-CoV-2, was negative.
On day 16, C-reactive protein values began to decrease.
The patient's mental status slowly improved and was discharged 13 days after readmission.
Intentional function and memory remained impaired, but gradually recovered to normal approximately 45 days after the onset of encephalopathy.
