A 71-year-old man with a history of benign prostatic hyperplasia and smoker for 30 years (20 cigarettes per day) came to the emergency department with dry cough, mild dyspnea and fever of 38 °C that did not remit.
Two weeks before he had returned to Mexico City from Miami.
On the day of admission, her dyspnea worsened and she suffered from myalgia and intense arthralgia, especially in the face of seizures.
In the initial evaluation, the patient reported general weakness and▁malaise.
She did not report nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or urinary or neurological symptoms.
She had not taken any medication except acetaminophen (febrile every 8 hours) to control her condition.
She had no known allergies.
Physical examination showed a blood pressure of 120/68 mmHg, pulse of 90 l.p.m.
respiratory rate of 22 r.p.m.
The temperature was 36.5 °C and oxygen saturation was 84% in room air.
She was conscious and oriented, but her speech was slow and interwoven.
A cardiopulmonary examination revealed rales in both lung bases, but no signs of respiratory distress.
Physical examination was normal.
Blood tests showed normal white blood cell count with lymphocyte count (85 × 109/L), hemoglobin concentration 161 g/L and mild thrombocytopenia (118 000 × 109/L).
Their creatinine value was high, 1.68 mg/dL, and those of C-reactive protein and procalcitonin were also high, with▁2.9 mg/dL and 2.89 ng/mL, respectively.
An increase of interleukin 6 (233 pg/mL) was also observed.
Muscle enzymes were clearly high (creatine phosphokinase at 8720 U/L and myoglobin at 2079 ng/mL).
Ferritin and lactic dehydrogenase values were also high (at 2603 ng/mL and 541 U/L, respectively).
A urine analysis showed hemoglobin without erythrocytes in the sediment.
A nasopharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 was positive.
Multiplex PCR for respiratory viruses and HIV yielded negative results.
A CT scan of the lung revealed bilateral infiltrates with areas of consolidation and extensive ground-glass opacities.
The patient was admitted to the COVID-19 plant and oxygen was administered through a nasal cannula.
Aggressive hydration and bicarbonate therapy was initiated, as well as enoxaparin, ceftriaxone and ceftriaxone.
The patient was admitted to compassionate therapy, so hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir therapy was started.
Her condition worsened on the third day of hospitalization and required invasive mechanical ventilation.
During the next two days, his condition continued to worsen, with fever, hypotension and major ventilation requirements.
C-reactive protein and interleukin-6 levels also increased (26.9 mg/dL and 275 pg/mL, respectively).
His family became compassionate tocilizumab.
Two doses of 400 mg tocilizumab i.v. were administered accordingly.
on days 5 and 6 of admission.
On the seventh day of admission her condition began to improve and showed a decrease in the values of lactic dehydrogenase, ferritin, C-reactive protein and procalcitonin.
He was extubated on day 12 of admission.
Her clinical condition continued to improve and after a negative test for SARS-CoV-2, she was discharged on day 16 after admission.
