We describe the case of a 74-year-old man with a history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes and ischaemic stroke who underwent a thrombectomy in 2017.
He had been confined alone since his return from a trip to a COVID-19 risk area 13 days earlier.
He came to the emergency room with general▁malaise and dyspnea.
He had had flu-like symptoms and fever of two days before admission, as well as spontaneous resolution chest pain.
Upon admission to the emergency department, the patient had severe hypoxemic respiratory failure and oxygen was administered through a high-flow nasal cannula.
Her condition progressively worsened and she developed endotracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation.
The electrocardiogram on admission showed sinus tachycardia with minimal ST segment elevation isolated in leads III and ST segment depression in V2-V4.
No tachycardia was observed on subsequent electrocardiograms.
Chest X-ray showed basically peripheral cotton-type infiltrates in both lung fields, and blood tests at admission revealed acute renal failure (creatinine 2 mg/dL) and significant increase in cardiac troponin 11 U-62 ng with a value of creatine
High levels of interleukin 6 (135 pg/mL), ferritin (145μg/L), lactate-dehydrogenase (L), N-diterminal hormone (945μg/mL) and progpm (4076mL) were also observed.
A transthoracic echocardiogram showed left ventricular dysfunction with inferolateral hypokinesis.
Considering the high possibilities of COVID-19 from the clinical picture and the recent travel of the patient, a test for acute respiratory distress syndrome due to coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was performed, with a positive result.
In the following hours, the patient suffered a clear hemodynamic deterioration followed by a mixed shock that required vasoactive support with noradrenaline at a maximum dose of 0.44 mg/kg/min.
Emergency cardiac catheterization showed trivascular coronary artery disease with thrombotic occlusion of the right coronary artery.
Percutaneous coronary intervention was performed and placement of two drug-eluting stents; thrombus migrated to the posterior descending artery.
Platelet counts (aspirin and clopidogrel) and anticoagulants with heparin sodium were administered to the patient.
A regimen with hydroxychloroquine and tocilizumab was also initiated.
His condition progressively worsened during the following hours, with hemodynamic deterioration.
It was decided to perform a thoracic and abdominal CT scan, which showed multiple arterial thrombosis and results consistent with ischemia, splenic infarction and pulmonary thromboembolism (28%).
The patient died 72 hours after admission.
