A 21-year-old man presented to the emergency department with fever, cough, dyspnea, diarrhea, nausea, headache and nasal congestion for 4 days.
Apart from a history of hypertension, prediabetes and class I obesity, the patient was in good health and stated that he did not smoke or consume alcohol or drugs or had made recent trips.
Vital signs showed a temperature of 37.5 °C, blood pressure of 116/57 mmHg, pulse of 76 l.p.m.
and oxygen saturation of 95% in ambient air.
Physical examination revealed cleared lungs and breathing without difficulty.
Neurological examination was normal.
Chest radiographs showed bilateral patchy alveolar infiltrates without lobular consolidation.
A nasopharyngeal smear was performed and a set of respiratory pathogen tests yielded negative results for all of them.
In addition, oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal swab samples were sent to an external private laboratory for real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
The patient was discharged with pulse oximetry monitoring, home isolation instructions and precautions in case of return.
During the following 24 hours, the patient experienced an increase in the sensation of dizziness and a decrease in oxygen saturation to about 85%, according to pulse oximetry.
He returned to the emergency service with fever (39.1 °C temperature), with slight tachycardia (102 l.p.m.
), tachypnea (28 r.p.m.)
and hypoxia (89% in ambient air).
Chest X-rays showed an increase in bilateral alveolar infiltrates, while a complete blood count revealed▁lymphocytic colitis (lymphocyte count 0.7 K/mm3).
The patient was admitted with medicament and monitoring; the consolidation was reduced from 2 L by nasal cannula to ambient air.
She was discharged on day 4 of hospitalization and the external tests confirmed COVID-19 the day after discharge.
Initially, she began feeling well during convalescence at home, but on the 16th day of illness she suffered weakness and right facial swelling.
Over 24 hours, the symptoms became bilateral and culminated in a severe dysarthria, which manifested a "disorder to harm" the patient.
The patient also reported hypogeusia.
Neurological examination showed a pattern of lower bilateral facial motor function, with normal cranial nerve pairs, normal strength, sensitivity in all limbs and intact myoepithelial reflex.
She was admitted for observation and underwent a brain and temporal bone MRI, as well as a fluoroscopic lumbar puncture to obtain CSF samples.
The CSF was negative for staining and bacterial cultures and revealed normal values of glucose (65 mg/dL), absence of leukocytes and slight proteinorrhachia (49 mg/dL).
A MRI revealed bilateral▁anomalous enhancement of the facial nerves and the right ocular motor nerve.
The patient was discharged with stable facial weakness, without worsening of symptoms and 99% oxygen saturation in room air.
A neurological outpatient follow-up was agreed, awaiting several serological and spinal analytical results.
On day 19 of the disease, the patient reported new subjective bilateral weakness of the lower limbs, bilateral paresthesia of the upper limbs and persistent facial weakness, which led to her readmission for further follow-up and treatment.
A new neurological examination revealed no changes in facial weakness, but a new bilateral weakness grade 4/5 in the deltoid and hip flexors, as well as diffuse areflexia.
A complete spinal MRI did not reveal any suspicious spinal cord anomalies or▁anomalous spinal cord or horsetail enhancement.
Electromyography and nerve conduction abnormalities showed results consistent with acute sensory-motor polyneuropathy with demyelinating and axonal characteristics.
For religious reasons, the patient refused treatment with IV immunoglobulin.
The patient was treated with 5 cycles of plasmapheresis, with mild improvement in facial weakness and paresthesia.
The analytical results of CSF and serological remained negative except for herpes simplex virus, immunoglobulin G and immunoglobulin M; the patient was discharged for rehabilitation in general hospitalization.
She refused a new lumbar puncture before discharge.
