A 6-week-old boy was admitted on March 23, 2020 to the Pediatric Emergency Department of the University Hospital of Amiens (France), with fever (38.9 °C) of 12 hours onset.
He was born at 39 weeks of gestation, with Apgar scores at 1 minute and at 5 minutes of 10 and 10, respectively.
The child did not recover after the installation.
The birth weight was 3,160 g. The mother was 25 years old with no relevant history and, one week before the child was admitted, presented ageism and anosmia, without fever or other associated symptoms.
The father was 28 years old and only reported anosmia the day before admission.
At the initial examination in the pediatric emergency room, the child was in good general condition, but slightly▁crying and hypotonic, was well fed with artificial milk and weighed 5,000 g.O. respiratory rate was 38°C and 100% O2 pulse.
The abdomen was blade, the liver was palpable 0.5 cm below the costal margin, and the patient had no cough or dyspnea.
The results of the rest of the examination were not remarkable.
Blood tests at admission revealed a white blood cell count of 8,500/mm3 (normal range: 5,000–18,000/mm3); lymphocytes 4,700/mm3 (normal range: 1,800–2,200/mm3).
Lactate dehydrogenase concentration was 255 IU/L (normal range: 120-246 IU/L); renal and hepatic activity values were normal.
▁Cytological analysis and urine dipstick, procalcitonin and C-reactive protein did not yield abnormal results.
A rapid test for influenza A and B was negative.
Due to the parents' symptoms, the child's age and symptoms (lurose, with fever and hypotonic), the child was admitted to the pediatric unit of COVID-19s and underwent laboratory tests.
The SARS-CoV-2 test was performed from nasopharyngeal swabs, urine,▁faeces and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
Few hours after hospitalization, the child presented excessive▁crying, so an abdominal ultrasound was performed, without relevant results.
Pending microbiological tests, treatment with cefoxime (200 mg/kg per day in four doses) and gentamicin (5 mg/kg per day in one dose) and probiotics was started.
The clinical status of the patient improved 24 hours after hospitalization, with gradual remission of fever and initial hypotonia.
The oropharyngeal swabs and feces were positive for SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR test.
Aerobic and anaerobic blood cultures were negative; CSF cultures were sterile (for bacteria and viruses: SARS-CoV-2, adenovirus ribonucleic acid 6, human herpes simplex virus).
Although the reagent strip was negative, a few days later the laboratory confirmed positive for Citrobacter koseri in the cytobacteriological urine analysis, with good sensitivity to the current antibiotic treatment.
Five days after admission, considering good health status and normal results of blood and microbiological analysis, the patient was discharged with indications for home monitoring during the following three weeks.
In addition, considering the child's age, parents would be contacted by telephone every two days for the next two weeks to monitor their health status.
Due to the presence of C. koseri in the urine and antibiogram results, amoxicillin and clavulanic acid were prescribed for the following 6 days.
Finally, for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in stools (relatively abundant), probiotics were prescribed for the following 2 weeks.
Two weeks after discharge, the child was in good health, afflicted and without diarrhea or vomiting.
Parents were advised to continue home monitoring, with visits to the physician if necessary.
