A 53-year-old man with no medical or psychiatric history came to the emergency department after an apparent suicide attempt, ingesting an unknown amount of a bottle's bedding.
During the initial examination, she was conscious and oriented, although not very collaborative due to epigastric pain.
The response to most questions of the primary care team was established.
Examination of the mouth revealed abrasion of the right lower lip, without oropharyngeal lesions.
The wife, who accompanied him, said he was disconcerted by her husband's action.
The woman said that her husband had been 'good, normal, happy, and had never done anything similar.'
He also said he had not complained of fever, cough, or had any recent disease.
I didn't know why her husband could have swallowed some milk.
The patient did not cooperate during the psychiatric interview because of his apparent cultural stigma.
I repeated that "no ill-defined location; no ill-defined"
Urine toxicology was negative.
Our initial recommendation was psychiatric hospitalization after medical authorization.
While he was in the emergency room he had fever (temperature: 38.7 °C), tachycardia (pulse: 120 l.p.m.)
Transaminate and urea nitrogen increased.
The chest X-ray revealed an opacity in the upper lobe of the right lung, indicative of a possible COVID-19 pneumonia.
The patient was transferred to the hospital ward for treatment.
Treatment was initiated with 1000 mg ceftriaxone IV.
Each day 250 mg oral azithromycin 500 mg oral azithromycin 500 mg oral azithromycin
During the next 5 days, she continued to be non-cooperative, refused meals and reported lack of appetite; she also refused IV medication.
sometimes.
The nursing staff noted that the patient «looked for himself» but could be given verbal indications.
She claimed to have planned or attempted suicide.
Infection with coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) acute respiratory distress syndrome was confirmed by real-time RT-PCR from nasopharyngeal swabs.
There were no focal neurological deficits or apparent cognitive impairments.
On day 6 of hospitalization, a Montreal Cognitive Assessment Test was performed.
The patient obtained a result of 26 out of 30. He lost one point in the visuospatial test, one point due to noncompliance in the rhinoceronte, one point in the subtraction of 7 in 7 and one due to refusal.
A total of 3 doses of 5 mg of intramuscular olanzapine were administered intermittently to treat the patient's nervousness on days 3, 7 and 8.
On day 6 of hospitalization, the patient developed hypoxemic respiratory failure due to COVID-19.
He also presented chills and continued with hyperthermia.
It started to improve on day 10 of hospitalization, with fewer requests for physiotherapy, and was more cooperative during the examinations.
On day 12 of hospitalization a non-contrast-enhanced cranial CAT scan was performed, with irrelevant results.
No lumbar puncture was performed.
On the 12th day of hospitalization, he could comment on his hearing aids in detail.
He referred that his initial symptom was a repeated auditory manifestation in the form of a single voice that was not recognizable, which began one day before his bedtime consumption.
He was not sure of the sex of his voice, but said that he was a 'demonial' sound and that he heard it externally.
The voice initially said, "Take the bridge" and then "Go to the kitchen and drink leagues."
She reported feeling confused and terrified.
He explained that he had finally taken a league not to commit suicide, but because 'the voice increasingly screamed and was more insistent.'
She suffered from hearing loss in the past, as well as repeating episodes during hospitalization.
Have also consumed drugs, alcohol, or tobacco
Have had suicidal thoughts or attempts, at present or in the past
She was conscious of objectives and future situations and affectively reactive.
Have experienced or current mood or anxiety disorders
Since the implementation of the guidelines, he reported that he had been able to work at home as an instructor; his wife, a school teacher, and his 21-year-old son, a web developer, also worked.
Before hospitalization, she had experienced some anxiety about COVID-19, but she said she felt fortunate to be able to be at home and tried to «keep occupied her mind and body».
She reported having acute stress factors in her personal relationships, work or economic situation.
The patient's history and the absence of previous psychiatric diseases were confirmed by information obtained from his wife and family doctor.
The psychiatry team authorized her discharge to go to a subacute rehabilitation center.
The diagnostic impression at discharge was psychotic disorder associated with another medical process.
