Mr. G, a 43-year-old man with no relevant history, drug addiction or personal or family psychiatric history, came to the emergency department with headache and fever.
On examination, her temperature was 37.8 °C, oxygen saturation was 99% in room air and the rest of vital signs were within normal limits.
It was noted that he could have COVID-19, but did not meet the criteria to perform a test at that time, so he was discharged and dyspnea was advised to return home with fever Nuregfine days later.
On examination, her temperature was 39 °C, with tachycardia at 110 l.p.m., oxygen saturation was 99% in room air and the rest of vital signs were within normal limits.
A chest X-ray showed no acute cardiopulmonary abnormalities.
A nasopharyngeal swab was sent for PCR of COVID-19 to an external laboratory.
The patient was discharged with a prescription of 5 days of oral distension (500 mg on day 1 and then 250 mg on days 2 to 5), discretionary benzonatate for tobu medication and inhalations
Three days later (12 days after his first admission), he returned to the emergency room for the third time, with high back pain and spasms.
He also reported distress and insomnia due to his concern with COVID-19.
The patient was afflicted, oxygen saturation was 96% in room air and the rest of vital signs were within normal limits.
His COVID-19 PCR test was reported to have yielded negative results.
He also reported that he had complied with the prescription and recommended that he finish the treatment at home.
Her back pain was considered musculoskeletal, secondary to persistent cough, and she was discharged with a prescription of metocarbamol 750 mg 4 times a day for 7 days.
Four days later (15 after the first admission to the emergency department), the patient's wife called the consultation of her bedside physician.
He informed that he was▁worried because his husband had been acting strangely since he had been tested for COVID-19 a week before.
He had noticed that he spoke to himself, did not eat or drink properly, and did not shower.
He was also▁worried because he often stood looking at the wall and▁trembled and sweated without fever.
Later on that same day, a telephone visit was made to a primary care physician, but the patient did not telephone because he feared the doctor "out of the devil".
The doctor and wife took him back to the emergency room.
In the emergency room, the patient reported receiving help from two people switching from a wheel to a stretcher due to weakness.
His temperature was 37.9 °C, his pulse was 107 l.p.m., oxygen saturation was 96% in room air and the rest of vital signs were within normal limits.
His blood glucose was normal, as well as serum electrolytes, procalcitonin, C-reactive protein, creatine kinase and lactic acid.
The serum drug test was negative.
Leukocytes remained normal, with 3% of immature granulocytes and a high number of thrombocytes (55.
Liver function tests showed alanine-transaminase of 281 U/L and aspartate transaminase of 79 U/L.
Its international normalized ratio was increased to 1.5.
A new PCR test for COVID-19 was positive.
The chest X-ray showed no acute cardiopulmonary disorders.
A non-contrast-enhanced cranial CAT scan showed no acute intracranial anomalies.
Then a lumbar puncture was performed after giving 1 mg of IV midazolam.
; CSF analysis was irrelevant, without polymorphous leukocytes or Gram staining organisms, 2 erythrocytes/μL and 1 leucocytes/μL in the leukocyte formula 69 mg/dL and glucose values respectively.
The patient was admitted that same night in the general hospital ward for monitoring and treatment of his mental disorder.
The next day (day 2 hospitalization), the psychiatry team was consulted.
On that day, the patient was alert and oriented about people, place and time, but it took to respond verbally, showed hypertonia and cost him to sit on his upper limbs, and also presented intense sweating.
Her vital signs were also relevant for temperature up to 37.4 °C, labile pressure (107/70 to 156/103 in 12 hours), an episode of tachypnea with respiratory rate of 36 r.p.m.
and oxygen saturation between 93 and 95% in ambient air.
According to the hospital's policy at that time, to minimize exposure and transmission, the psychiatric team did not assess the patient in person, due to a syndrome of acute respiratory distress caused by coronavirus 2, and instead tried to speak the hospital room.
However, the patient did not respond and his nurse reported that he was too weak to support the phone next to his ear.
From the information available at that time, the psychiatric team recommended 50 mg of quetiapine orally before bedtime to treat insomnia and possible psychotic symptoms.
Finally, the patient did not receive the medication because he was unable to take oral medications.
A urinary catheter was placed because he had not urinated during hospitalization.
The profile of drugs in urine obtained after catheter placement was positive only for▁benzodiazepines.
Next morning (day 3 hospitalization), the patient's nurse noted that she was in bed in an abnormal position, with her feet above the bed and arms in decortication posture.
1 mg of lorazepam IV was administered.
preparation for cerebral and spinal MRI and was observed 30 minutes after administration.
He was sitting in bed, talking to his roommate.
He no longer sweated and asked for something to drink.
At that moment she said to the nurse that she had been or had been flying away that she had not taken him to the nursery.
The MRI was performed, which showed no signs in T2 or FLAIR, leptomeningeal contrast enhancement, white matter abnormalities or malformations.
The patient was initially treated with 1 mg of lorazepam IV.
3 times a day and on day 5 of hospitalization the patient was diagnosed with lorazepam 1 mg orally 4 times a day.
During this time he showed no more signs of catatonia; he continued without hypertonia and conversation, and ate and drank well.
Lorazepam was reduced to 1 mg twice daily on the day of discharge on the tenth day of hospitalization.
At this moment, the patient spoke fluently, could move all limbs without difficulties and psychosis was not▁appreciated.
Four days after discharge, the psychiatric team assessed the patient by telephone; he had no motor or speech difficulties and no psychosis was observed, but had trouble sleeping.
Oral lorazepam was reduced to 1 mg before bedtime.
6 days after discharge, the patient was evaluated by his bedside physician; he continued to report sleep disturbances, in addition to feeling sad and anhedonia.
His wife said she had improved, but she was not yet fully recovered, because she needed stimulation to start a conversation and to do her job.
In the subsequent psychiatric follow-up, 1 mg of lorazepam was maintained orally due to psychomotor retardation and 6 mg of melatonin in the evening for insomnia.
