A 79-year-old Caucasian man was admitted to our hospital with general weakness,▁malaise, and cough non-specific.
He had had these symptoms during the 8 days prior to admission.
18 years before the admission, he was diagnosed with autoimmune aortic stenosis, which currently presents as single organ vasculitis, according to the consensus definition of Chapel Hill in 2012.
The patient had been submitted to several treatments alone with glucocorticoids, either in combination with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine, as well as six cycles of cyclophosphamide IV.
up to 14 months before the current table.
At that time, the patient was diagnosed with rapid bladder epithelial carcinoma, in stage T2N0M0 (with inactive bladder muscle involvement), after presenting macrohematuria.
She underwent transurethral cystectomy and received intermittent radiotherapy with a maximum dose of 59.4 Gy and simultaneous chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin.
During the 8 months prior to admission, the patient had not received any antineoplasic treatment.
The rest of the medical history were inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, stage 3a chronic nephropathy, Parkinson's disease, osteoporosis and intermittent atrial fibrillation.
On March 6, 2020, at admission, the patient's temperature was 36.8 °C, blood pressure 130 mmHg, and pulse 80 l.p.m.
The respiratory rate was 16 r.p.m.
and oxygen saturation was 94% in room air.
Leukocyte count indicated < white cell count with an absolute lymphocyte count > 370 lymphocytes/ mm3 (reference range 1.090-2.990), mild thrombocytopenia with 102,000/ mm3 (reference range 150,000-350,000).
The test for antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA), antinuclear antibodies (ANA) and anti-GBM antibodies was negative.
The chest X-ray was normal.
Blood cultures were performed.
The patient received 2 oxygen per minute through a nasal cannula and was admitted for further evaluation.
A chest CT scan revealed extensive ground-glass opacities suggestive of acute interstitial pneumonia.
Four days after admission, the patient had a temperature of 38.3 °C and his respiratory status worsened, with 89% oxygen saturation per minute, as well as hemoptysis.
The gas confirmed hypoxemia with a PaO2 of 61 mmHg and hyperventilation with a PaCO2 of 31 mmHg.
Piperacillin IV was administered.
Tazoa, et al., et al., et al.
Bronchoscopy showed signs of chronic bronchitis with progressively hemorrhagic bronchial fluid from successive equal samples during bronchoalveolar lavage, consistent with diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH).
Washing revealed a total number of 10x105 cells per ml, basically formed by alveolar macrophages, and 1000 erythrocytes per mm3.
Gram stains and PCR for Legionella spp., Chlamydia spp., Mycoplasma spp., cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus 1 and 2, influenza A and B virus, nontuberculous mycobacterial respiratory viruses were negative.
The patient was transferred to the ICU where non-invasive ventilation was started.
Finally, a real-time PCR for SARS-CoV-2 from a nasopharyngeal smear was positive, while other possible causes of pneumonia were ruled out.
In the following 24 hours, the patient progressively worsened to the point where invasive mechanical ventilation was considered indicated.
According to the patient's will, he did not intubble and received palliative care, with which he died soon after.
Diagnosis: HAD due to pulmonary infection with SARS-CoV-2.
