Patient was 16 years old, otherwise healthy, who came to our emergency department in a regional hospital with symptoms of hyperthermia and abdominal pain, fatigue and throat irritation.
It was relevant that he and several of his brothers shared a precondition exposure to a patient with coronavirus disease 2019 3 weeks before the clinical picture.
On physical examination, she had signs of acute pharyngitis, non-purulent conjunctivitis, diffuse abdominal pain due to respiratory distress, and an extensive maculopapular rash (in the palms of the hands, knee and ankles).
She was admitted to the pediatric ward with premedication is carlatine and then presented headache and nuchal▁rigidity.
A CT scan yielded normal results and a lumbar puncture was performed.
Cerebrospinal fluid showed mild pleocytosis and normal glucorrhachia, and was negative for bacterial and viral pathogens.
It should be noted that 2 nasopharyngeal swabs for SARS-CoV-2 were negative, as well as a broad panel of tests for infectious diseases.
On the third day of hospitalization, the patient presented thermal shock, was admitted to the local pediatric ICU and required intubation and hemodynamic support with epinephrine and milrinone.
Analytical results were relevant for a high value of troponin-I (922 ng/L) and a disproportionately high value of pro-BNP (> 35,000 pg/mL; analytical limit).
An echocardiogram showed a slightly reduced systolic left ventricular function, with 50% ejection fraction and mild mitral insufficiency.
The coronary arteries were normal.
As at this time the clinical picture was consistent with nephropathy a patient was treated with IV immunoglobulin.
Aspirin was administered to the pediatric ICU of our tertiary care center.
During her stay, she was intubated and mechanically▁ventilated, and she did not receive variable doses of inotropic support and vasopressor.
The echocardiogram showed normal systolic left ventricular function, moderate concentric mitral regurgitation and mild aortic regurgitation.
Analytical tests showed a high value of C-reactive protein (24 mg/dL), mild normocytic anemia, borderline thrombocytopenia, mild coagulation disorder (INR 2.23) with normal fibrinogen values (3573 ng/mL).
Blood cultures and respiratory viral panels were negative in sputum and blood, with a nasopharyngeal swab positive for SARS-CoV-2 IgA and serological confirmation of previous infection with IgG-SAS.
The rheumatologic examination revealed very low complement factor C3 and C4 (26 and < 1.68 mg/dL, respectively), as well as negative antinuclear antibodies.
On the following day, the patient developed cloth; an emergency brain MRI and an MRI showed diffuse and small siderosis foci with low signal intensity in the subcortical white matter of both hemispheres and corpus callosum.
In addition to hemodynamic involvement, the patient presented acute respiratory distress syndrome and small bilateral pleural effusions.
With the provisional diagnosis of atypical Kaaki resistant associated with SARS-CoV-2, she was treated with an additional dose of IV IG.
and a 5-day regimen of pulsed methylprednisolone.
Signs of microlithiasis were ruled out with anticoagulant therapy.
During the following 3 days, the cardiovascular and pulmonary alterations resolved and the patient was successfully extubated.
Neurologically speaking, consciousness improved and general strength rapidly.
As the abdominal pain and vomiting persisted, an abdominal CAT scan showed signs of mild pancreatitis and moderate ascites.
Additional laboratory tests showed a gradual decrease in troponin I, pro-BNP and inflammation markers, as well as an increase in C3 and C4 to normal values.
In a follow-up examination 2 weeks after discharge, the echocardiogram showed mild coronary thickening of 3.5 mm, with a small coronary aneurysm in the right coronary artery.
Mitral and aortic regurgitation had resolved, and cardiac activity was normal.
Neurological examination was normal except for general muscle weakness.
