A 56-year-old man presented with three days history of paragripal symptoms and hyperthermia.
She had a history of hypertension controlled by Valsartan tablets.
I had a tent and I had traveled or had contact with infected people.
The patient was admitted and antibiotics and antipyretics were administered.
Signaling tests and chest X-ray were normal, and RT-PCR from nasopharyngeal smears yielded negative results, despite increased cough intensity, dyspnea and fever.
Four days later, the RT-PCR test was positive for SARS-CoV-19.
The patient's condition worsened; on day 6 of hospitalization, she presented dyspnea, fever, cough, tachycardia and hypoxemia, with diffuse bilateral crepitants on chest examination 90%, oxygen saturation PaO2 at cannula was 89.5 mmHg nasal gradient, and increased to oxygen saturation SpO2 to nasal temperature was 80 mmHg.
A complete blood count revealed▁lymphocytic colitis; serum ferritin was 650ng/ml, C-reactive protein was 45mg/dL and ESR was 91.
A chest X-ray revealed diffuse bilateral inferior vena cava in the lower zone. A chest CT scan showed annular consolidation in the left upper lobe around a small area of ground glass opacity (bilateral halo sign or athlon opacity).
Noninvasive physiotherapy was applied to the patient, meronepem i.v.
1 gm three times a day, tamiflú 75 mg twice a day, Kaltetra 400/100 mg twice a day tablets, valsartan 400 mg twice a day subcutaneously twice a day amlodipine 300 mg twice a day on the first day.
In the following four days, the patient worsened, oxygen saturation dropped to 70-80% with 10 L of oxygen; PaO2: 56 mmHg, PaO2/FiO2: 93, serum functional alveolocolic gradient serum tests - SG: 75 mmHg
In addition to medication, the patient received 200 ml of serum convalescent of a patient recovered from moderate COVID-19 after performing the necessary tests of donor plasma (hemoglobinemia and viral tests).
70 hours later, the patient began to improve, fever subsided, dyspnea decreased and lymphocyte counts returned to normal.
Six days after the plasma transfusion, the patient presented the following values: D = 1887 ng/ml, PaO2: 81mmHg, PaO2/FiO2:162mmHg with 10L of oxygen by nasal cannula.
The chest X-ray showed an improvement in consolidations and ground-glass opacities; the chest CT scan showed a disappearance of the pleural effusion.
The patient was discharged 21 days after admission in good health.
Three consecutive RT-PCR identical to those performed 24 hours previously had negative results.
