A 39-year-old patient with no medical history presented with chest pain and dyspnea for two days.
He had no fever or cough.
The ECG performed in the emergency room showed diffuse ST-segment elevation, associated with a PQ decrease.
The initial analytical results were: C-reactive protein 22 mg/L, leukocytes 13.7×109/L, troponin 15.4 μg/L (N < 0.05 μg/L), blood lactate 26 mmol/L, sodium
Chest CT showed pleural and epicardial effusion and atelectasis, but no acute lung injury typical of SARS-CoV-2.
As his wife had been diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2, a RT-PCR test was performed, which yielded positive results.
An echocardiogram confirmed a moderate pericardial effusion without signs of tamponade.
On day 5, a cardiac MRI was performed, which confirmed the diagnosis of myoperitis with late enhancement with subepicardial gadolinium and myocardial hyperintensity on T2 in the inferolateral basal segment.
The patient was treated with colchicine, 1 mg a day.
The patient presented evidence of mild heart failure, with dyspnea, pleural effusion and high N-terminal prohormone value of brain natriuretic peptide (4473 pg/mL), controlled with low doses of diuretics for 4 days.
Hyperkalemia was controlled with insulin, but hyponatremia persisted despite a fluid-restricted diet.
Adrenal insufficiency was ruled out.
Respiratory status was stable, never exceeding 1 L/min oxygen.
Pleural fluid was▁exudate with 28 g/L protein and 376 IU/L LDH.
The maximum value of troponin was 25 μg/L (N < 0.05 μg/L) and that of C-reactive protein was 141 mg/L.
An episode of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was successfully treated with amiodarone, with no recurrence.
The pericardial effusion disappeared completely on day 5 of treatment with colchicine.
A second mild complication was rhabolysis (associated with severe myalgia in the feet and acute arthritis, with a maximum creatine kinase value of 17.070 IU/L (day 113 μ) leading to renal failure).
Immunological tests (specific myositis and associated antibodies, antinuclear antibodies, anti-cyclic peptide antibodies, citrullined anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, CH50, C3-C4) were all negative.
The third complication was a severe acute liver injury with ASAT 556 IU/L (15× upper normal value), ALAT 557 IU/L×), choline stasis and total elevated bilirubin (86% normal time/L), but
Serological tests for viral hepatitis were negative.
The patient was discharged on day 10 with decreased ASAT (416 IU/ L, 11× normal value), elevated ALAT (557 IU/ L, 8× normal value), elevated ALT (ALT, ALT, ALT, ALT, AST, ALT, ALT, ALT, AST, ALT, ALT, AST, ALT, AST, ALT, ALT, ALT, AST, ALT, ALT, AST, ALT, ALT, ALT, AST
