A 57-year-old man was diagnosed with recurrent multiple sclerosis since 1996.
She began treatment with multiple interferon beta 1-2, which was replaced by FNG in 2013 due to the disease activity beta (clinical persistent inflammatory activity and previous interferon 1).
The last score on the expanded disability state scale was 6.0, basically due to left hemiparesis.
The number of lymphocytes in the previous year was between 700 and 900 per microliter, and the last NMR in 2019 showed a moderate burden of morbidity and mortality, with no clinical signs or NMR of disease activity.
The last test before admission gave 500 lymphocytes/μL.
He suffered a fall in his house during the first week of March 2020.
Since then, she complained of back pain in the dorsal-lumbar area, which began to worsen when moving her trunk.
On March 25, she presented with fever and▁malaise.
She was admitted to the hospital with a temperature of 38oC.
The neurological examination did not show any changes with respect to the last evaluation in the multiple sclerosis outpatient clinic.
Blood tests showed high levels of C-reactive protein (12.83 mg/dL [normal range: 0.50]) and▁lymphocytic urticaria (500/μL).
The chest X-ray was anodyne, but confirmed a fracture of the sixth thoracic vertebra.
Real-time PCR for SARS-CoV-2 from a nasopharyngeal smear was positive, and treatment with hydroxychloroquine was started for 7 days.
The FNG was maintained and for the following three weeks she continued with intermittent fever, but without respiratory complications (pO2 82 mmHg, pCO2 35 mmHg) and normal chest X-rays.
Due to the risk of vertebral instability, she underwent dorsal surgery on April 18, without complications.
Two days later, the nasogastric tube was implanted due to a low lymphocyte count (100/μL).
After one week (day 30 from symptom onset), lymphocytes increased0/μL), but the patient developed fever (38.5 oC) and dyspnea, which required oxygen via nasal cannula.
A new chest X-ray showed bilateral infiltrates.
C-reactive protein remained high (6.93 mg/dL).
At that time, pO2 was 70 mmHg and pCO2 was 36 mmHg.
Other infectious causes were ruled out and PCR for SARS-CoV-2 remained positive.
A deferred clinical exacerbation of COVID-19 was considered as the main possibility; therefore, methylprednisolone was prescribed every week.
The patient progressively improved during the following week, but did not receive additional steroid therapy, but continued to have abnormal chest X-rays and positive PCR for nasopharyngeal smears.
FNG was established after reduction of methylprednisolone without further complications.
