A 76-year-old man with hypertension, dyslipidemia and diabetes mellitus was admitted to our emergency department with fever, asthenia and low back pain for two weeks.
On admission, he had hyperthermia, 120 l.p.m., oxygen saturation of 87% and 22 r.p.m.
Laboratory tests showed▁lymphocytic colitis and increased fibrinogen, sickle cell disease, creatinine and C-reactive protein.
The chest X-ray showed unilobular opacities in the left lower lobe.
On admission, treatment was initiated with hydroxychloroquine, ceftriaxone, methylprednisolone and enoxaparin at a dose of 40mg per day.
96 hours later, the patient continued with fever, dyspnea and tachypnea, and required high-flow therapy to increase oxygen saturation to 92%.
The values of C-reactive protein, D-rich, ferritin and IL-6 progressively increased.
The chest X-ray showed worsening with bilateral and multilobular opacities, so that the LMWH dose was increased to 60 mg per day and a single dose of tocilizumab was administered, without clinical improvement.
On day 11 of admission (day 26 from the onset of symptoms), the patient experienced a sudden episode of loss of muscle strength in the right side of the body, with a fall.
The examination showed global aphasia, oculocefaction towards left deviation and right phciobrachiofemoral hemiplegia.
A non-contrast-enhanced CT scan did not provide evidence of acute bleeding, tumor effects, or midline shift.
Treatment with IV▁acetylsalicylic acid was initiated.
and reduced from the LMWH dose to 40 mg daily, but no neurological improvement was observed.
48 hours later, a new non-contrast-enhanced brain CT scan showed signs consistent with complete ischemic stroke of the left middle cerebral artery, with signs of hyperdense vessels in the left internal carotid artery.
CT angiography of the carotid and cerebral arteries as a study of ischemic stroke was performed.
He revealed complete occlusion of the left internal carotid artery and, fortuitously, two 8 mm intranasal thrombus were identified in the ascending aorta.
Fibrinolysis and embolectomy were not considered due to the evolution of symptoms.
The dose of LMWH was increased at anticoagulant doses and the patient was discharged to a recovery center for complete rehabilitation.
The intention was to maintain an anticoagulant treatment for at least 3 months after the episode and to decide in specialized consultation after further reassessment with new clinical, analytical and diagnostic imaging information, except for the appearance of new scientific evidence that supports serious adverse events.
