We report the case of a 45-year-old woman, a professional butcher with no personal history of interest, who came to the emergency department due to▁malaise of one week duration, associated with arthromyalgia, headache, dry mouth,
After an initial assessment without alarm data, the patient was discharged with suspected diagnosis of influenza-like syndrome without specific treatment.
After 24 hours, the patient consults again due to worsening of the symptoms. On this occasion, she complained of thermo-smedullary fever, neck pain, arthralgia and abdominal pain, and also described choluria as a new clinical sign.
Physical examination revealed abdominal pain located in the right hypochondrium with positive Murphy and polyarthritis.
The initial complementary tests showed leukocytosis with left shift, total bilirubin 3.3 mg/dl a direct fraction EF, mild hypertransaminasemia, and CRP of 269.
These findings, and the suspicion of acute biliary pathology, an abdominal ultrasound is performed in the emergency room, being an anodyne.
Based on the presence of fever, polyarthritis, as well as laboratory abnormalities, admission was decided, with suspicion of fever with probable abdominal focus not affiliated.
Once in the plant, mild mucosal irritation was observed.
The first suspicion is acute cholangitis so that hemocultives are extracted and Ceftriaxone is initiated empirically, without improvement in the following 24-48 hours.
The patient was extended with serology of hepatopos virus as well as hepatic autoimmunity. An urgent abdominal CAT scan was performed, with no evidence of stenosis or cholangitis.
Given the persistence of the clinical symptoms and the presence of biliary pathology that justifies fever and laboratory abnormalities was ruled out, the patient was re-history of the onset of symptoms, manifesting having suffered a probable infectious episode three weeks before the onset.
Given the epidemiological history of the patient and the time elapsed as well as the referred symptoms, it is suspected as a diagnostic possibility febrile syndrome in the context of Coxiella Burnetti infection.
Empirical presentation was prescribed at a dose of 100 mg every 12 hours.
After six days of treatment, clinical and laboratory improvement was observed.
The serology against C. Burnetii (Ac IgM) was positive, confirming the diagnosis of Q fever.
