A 44-year-old man presented with emesis four hours after ingestion of adelfa leaves by infusion for autolytic purposes.
Personal history: depressive syndrome.
Location: good general condition, conscious and oriented.
Arterial T 128/78, heart rate 45 bpm, oxygen saturation 92% with FiO2 21%, body temperature 36.4oC.
Cardiorespiratory failure: rhythmic vesicular murmur at 45 bpm.
Normal abdomen.
Extremities without edema and symmetrical pulses.
Neurological involvement without focality.
▁Complementary tests: laboratory tests with normal renal and hepatic function; digoxinemia 0.3.
Electrocardiogram: sinus bradycardia at 45 bpm.
Discussion: The ingestion of glucosides cardiotonics plants can cause clinical manifestations similar to those of digitalis intoxication.
They are glycosylated▁steroids with positive inotropic effect.
In acute poisoning by N. oleander, effects similar to those of digoxin intoxication appear; initially, they are digestive and then tachyarrhythmias that may be associated with atrioventricular blocks.
If the condition progresses, tachycardia, fibrillation, or asystole may occur.
Treatment and management are focused on: administration of antiemetics, prevention of bedding and monitoring.
Gastric lavage and activated charcoal ingestion are techniques used, although studies have been conducted with conflicting results.
Electrolyte disturbances, hypokalemia or hyperkalemia should be corrected.
Bradyarrhythmias are treated with atropine or isoprenaline and in severe cases with transient seizures.
Tachyarrhythmias have a worse prognosis and have a worse therapeutic management.
Neither dialysis nor hemoperfusion has been shown to be effective.
Antibodies may be used in more severe patients.
Oleandrin cross-reacts with digoxin, so false positive levels of digoxin can be detected in the patient's blood, although the relationship between digoxin and authentic levels of oleandrin is linear.
This lack of correlation is reflected in several cases found in the scientific literature; therefore, the determination of olendrine by the methods used for the detection of plasma levels of digoxin does not present a relevant quantitative value for intoxication, but confirms us.
Several immunochemical methods have been described for the quantification of oleandrin, but not in all conventional laboratories it is possible to determine; if we can have the levels of digoxin although as reflected in the case that we did not increase cardiac rhythm.
