Anamn Female patient, 56 years old, with a history of liver transplantation in September 2009 due to Overlap syndrome and chronic infection by hepatitis C graft failure virus type III (low levels), who developed ta dysfunction in the post-transplantation period
In addition, she had diabetes mellitus secondary to treatment with corticosteroids and multifactorial renal failure.
The patient was under chronic treatment with tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, ursodeoxycholic acid, calcifediol, loracepam and insulin.
He had been diagnosed with probable migraine headache three months before, after suffering from right hemicrane headache with vomiting and difficulty in getting a right eye.
Subsequently, a cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, which showed thickening of the internal rectus muscle of the right eye.
Years before, she had had several episodes of right periocular headache and unrelated binocular diplopia.
He came to the hospital because of right hemicraneal headache and vomiting, which had subacute onset a few hours before, and did not respond to analgesic treatment and intravenous treatment in the emergency room.
Physical examination in the emergency room was strictly normal, including neuro-ophthalmology examination.
He had no fever or other relevant data on the systemic examination.
▁Complementary tests • Biochemistry: glucose 124mg/dl, urea 57 mg/dl, creatinine 1.11 mg/dl, alkaline phosphatase 136 IU/l, gamma-gluttransferase 308 IU/l.
Tacrolius levels 3.3 ng/ml. Globular sedimentation rate 46 mm/h.
Rest, including TSH, vitamin B12, folic acid, C-reactive protein and angiotensin converting enzyme, normal.
• Normal blood count and coagulation.
• Immunological profile: antinuclear antibodies positive at 1/320.
• Electrocardiogram and chest X-ray: no significant findings.
• Lues serologies, Lyme, Borrelia, human immunodeficiency virus, Ebstein-Pugh virus and herpex simplex virus: negative.
• Orbital and paranasal sinus computed tomography (CT): thickening of the right internal rectus, without involvement of the retroocular fat or other oculomotor muscles.
• Cranioorbital magnetic resonance imaging: increased thickness and signal intensity on T2 in the internal rectus muscle of the right orbita, compatible with▁orbital myositis.
Cranial computed tomography: shows thickening of the right internal rectum, as well as magnetic resonance imaging, where there is also an increase in T2 signal at the same level.
One hour later, the patient developed a limitation to adduction of the right eye, with persistence of right hemicraneal pain that was controlled after treatment with analgesics, corticosteroids at high doses.
Partial recovery of ocular motor function occurred before discharge, after six days of admission.
Diagnosis Orbital myositis of the internal rectum of the right eye, idiopathic and recurrent.
