A 38-year-old woman, non-smoker or drinker, with a history of migraine headache, and a single episode diagnosed in 2005 was studied.
Diagnosed 10 days before: Multiple Myeloma Bence-Jones Lambda Stage IIIA, associated with deterioration of renal function as the first clinical manifestation: Kidney induction of myeloma biopsy, which required initial treatment
The patient consulted for severe holocraneal headache, asthenia, vomiting, fever up to 39oC, paresthesias in the left shoulder, and reported inability to remember in the short term.
Physical examination revealed an alteration of the superior functions, with bpsychia, short-term memory impairment, emotional labilityzin, nominative aphasia, neck▁rigidity, butsky negative with Brushing and K.
Laboratory tests were performed with hemoglobin 9.2 mg/dl, leukocytosis, creatinine 1.87 mg/dl, normal rest.
Urine sediment showed pyuria, so empirical treatment with ceftriaxone was initiated.
Hemocultive and uroculture samples were extracted without microbiological isolation.
The chest and abdominal X-rays were normal.
Given the clinical signs and symptoms, a non-contrast-enhanced cranial CT was requested, and a lumbar puncture of non-traumatic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was performed (leukocytes 1342/mm3; polymorphonuclear CMV 1000; 3.1% seronuclear leukocytes: 1.7%; CMV 1000; seronuclear leukocytes: 3.1%; CMV 1000.
Results: Given the patient's clinical features and CSF analysis consistent with probable decapitated bacterial viral encephalitis, empirical treatment was initiated with antiretroviral therapy adjusted for renal function, ceftriaxone, vancomycin
Cultures, Gram stain, serology HIV, CMV, Toxoplasma were negative.
IgG serology for HSV was positive.
Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) revealed extensive hyperintense subcortical lesion in left anterior temporal T2, insula, hippocampus, and mild intracortical lymph nodes with a mean haemorrhagic deviation line-4 mm.
PCR for Enterovirus, Herpes Simultaneous Virus (HSV), Varicela Zoster Virus,▁Cytomegalovirus, was requested, with positive results for HSV-1.
Final diagnosis Herpetic Encephalitis Temporal Izquierda with discrete right involvement.
