A previously healthy 29-year-old woman from the United States radiated in Chile for 12 months consulted for the appearance of a painful lesion with signs of inflammation and increased pubic and vulvar volume.
She received outpatient empirical therapy with cefadroxile and then clindamycin, without clinical remission, so she was hospitalized.
He had no fever, dysuria or leucorrhea, but mild vulvar pruritus.
Her partner had no genital lesions.
Laboratory tests that included complete blood count, ESR, C-reactive protein and biochemical profile showed no abnormalities except mild 7.9 %, (680/ ̈ in bloodmm3), pregnancy test was negative (B-hCG).
Examination with ultrasound of blandos tissues described a nonspecific inflammatory process of subcutaneous cellular tissue in the suprapuberal region extending to the right labia majora, with ipsilateral reactive inguinal lymphadenopathy.
Due to the clinical suspicion of vulvar and flegmon meningitis, intravenous antibacterial treatment with ceftriaxone and clindamycin was continued.
After 48 h, the lesion progressed to the suprapuberal zone and then to the right iliofemoral region, for which vancomycin was added.
The lesions were red, hot and pruritic more than sensitive.
On the sixth day of treatment, the lesion continued to extend to the right fossa and iliac crest.
Blood inflammatory parameters remained low, with slightly elevated▁eosinophils (655 cells/mm3).
The patient's history of freshwater revealed a long stay, for work reasons, in rural areas in several Asian Southeast countries 12 months before consultation, with consumption of raw fish from seas and occasions
In addition, the patient reported three months before the genital lesion, an abdominal condition characterized by nausea, abdominal pain and diarrhea without pathological elements accompanied by fever (five days), myalgia and arthralgia, lasting for five weeks.
This episode was studied without finding an etiological cause, resolved spontaneously without specific therapy.
Due to the migration of the lesion, the presence of eosinophilic panmigration due to gnathostomiasis, a history of travel and consumption of raw fish, was raised.
Antibacterials were suspended, empirical antiparasitic therapy was initiated with oral albendazole (400 mg every 12 h) and a serum sample was sent to the reference laboratory in Asia (Departamento de Medicina Tropical Thailand, Faculty of Tropical Medicine).
Serial parasitological examination and Baermann test were negative for eggs and parasitic larvae in stools.
Serological examination in the laboratory in Bangkok confirmed the diagnosis, detecting IgG antibodies against Gnathostoma spinrium antigens with immunoblot technique.
▁Migration of the lesion or the appearance of a small, non-painful nodule within the center within two days of initiating antiparasitic treatment, with clear regression of the erythema and appearance of a small, occasionally painful nodule described when performing biopsy of the lesion
After eight days of outpatient treatment, the patient underwent a new pregnancy test that was positive, so the antiparasitic drug was discontinued.
A 12-month follow-up showed no evidence of lesion reactivation or appearance of skin and soft tissue symptoms in other sites.
Given that there are cases of relapse, the patient was educated for early consultation in case of recurrence of lesions.
