Juan is a 20-year-old, single patient with his mother's affection.
She has no brothers.
Academically, only primary studies were completed.
He has never had a stable job (only occasionally he has worked as a waiter in a discotheca).
The author’s emphasis is on the fact that parents’ separation from their children when they were 6 years old, the disappearance of the father 2 years later (in prison, circumstance that is hidden and that the patient’s family is open to separation).
The discovery of his father's paradox the patient lives him as a betrayal of his parents and this coincides temporarily with his abandonment of studies, his first contacts with marginalized environments and his beginning with his consumption limits.
Baseline situation In the months prior to admission: from the critical period mentioned above (short to 14 years) it is observed as indicated by the family a progressive abandonment of any previous interest (formal, laborious, sporting or emotional only)
She has no history of medical diseases or relevant surgical interventions or known drug allergies.
As a remarkable family history, it is only known that his father has suffered from pathological gambling and cannabis abuse.
History of cannabis smoker since the age of 14, with dependence criteria since the age of 15, reaching amounts of about 10 daily dog and without significant periods of abstinence until the day of admission to our center.
Intranasal cocaine abuser since 18 years of age, fulfilling abuse criteria for this substance and using quantities that have varied according to their availability at admission, had previously been diagnosed at 0.25 gr/day; the patient remained unconscious.
Drinker of alcohol since the age of 7 presenting a pattern of binge eating, of moderate amounts and on weekends.
Occasional contacts with designer drugs in the period between 15 and 17 years.
He had not made any attempt to dehabituate the consumption of toxic substances until he had contacted his Reference Drogodependent Care Center about 2 months before he was referred to the Dual Pathology Center.
She had not required psychiatric or psychological care until the onset of the current episode for about 2 months.
Current disease The admission to the Dual Pathology Center was of a voluntary nature, programmed, derived from a Care Center for Drug Addicted People.
The aim of this study was to detoxify, start smoking cessation, perform a psychopathological assessment in abstinence and stabilize the use of alcohol in this area.
As mentioned in the referral report, a few weeks before the family had requested outpatient psychiatric care for the patient due to this behavioral alteration and some self-injurious gesture in the context of a clinic compatible with a psychotic episode, without filiation.
Nevertheless, she did not take any pharmacological treatment at the time of admission, although 5 mg/d of Olanzapine had been prescribed for her in the previous weeks (since she abandoned sedation).
So far, he had not required psychiatric hospitalization.
Initial psychopathological awareness Conscientious, collaborative.
He has difficulty in his anguish.
Despersonalization experiences spheres, sentiments per se in the visual sphere and phenomena observatory, both hearing and visual cenest.
Hypochondriac fears in relation to the last ones "I don't feel the lungs, I may not have...".
Experiences of external influence and control.
Loss deliroid transformation due to conflicting relationships with former drug users.
Affective and behavioral repercussions of the above mentioned psychotic symptoms (low mood, irritability, isolation, abandonment of activities and social interaction).
Mixed insomnia.
No self-heteroaggressiveness or autolytic ideation.
Partial awareness of disease.
Their motivation for treatment was based solely on the pressure of their family environment.
The therapeutic residence hallucinations first weeks behind the admission patient continued to be distressed; this together with the withdrawal symptoms and the scarce awareness of the disease that he presented led him to several times to interrupt the process
We worked with him in this aspect from a psychoeducational and supportive approach, with good response.
In this first phase, the symptoms were managed pharmacologically, with risperidone up to a dose of 4 mg/d and bromacepam up to a dose of 4.5 mg/d, with no remarkable side effects.
A week after admission, the psychotic symptoms diminished considerably, with a good criticism of the ideas of prejudice and alterations in sense-performance until the symptoms disappeared after one month.
Once detoxified (with urines negativized for any substance of abuse) and disappeared the clinic that presented at admission, a basic personality trait marked by traces of immaturity adolescent promastigotes was observed when a specific structure was not reached - Transcriptive - Promitted - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcript - Transcriptive - Transcriptive - Transcript - Transcriptive Transcriptive Tranche - Transcriptive Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Transcript - Tran
Neither the clinic nor the specific personality tests (MCMI-II) were suggestive of any diagnosable disorder in this area.
In this phase of dishabituation, signs were observed, such as generalized slowing, subdepressive mood, little initiative, a tendency to avoid interpersonal contact and organize the future difficulties in external evaluation, verbalizations of feelings of emptiness, and desire experienced by patients.
All these symptoms responded favorably to the use of SSRI antidepressants (scitalopram up to 20 mg/d), also relieving notably the desire to consume cannabis and disappearing the previous episodes.
The antipsychotic medication was withdrawn and its clinical evolution was observed for 1 month and a half more hospitalization in the CPD; none of the psychotic symptoms that presented the most evident improvement in the cognitive sphere at the beginning of the admission reappeared.
From the psychotherapeutic point of view, the individual approach focused on the reorganization of family subsystems, in achieving a reinterpretation of the betrayal that felt in adolescence certain figure of the mother.
The return to academic training by the patient and the establishment of daily routines that allow a more adaptive reorganisation in daily life were also supported upon discharge.
It was also intervened in groups from the different approaches that are part of the therapeutic program of the device: psychoeducation, relapse prevention, self-control of anxiety, training in social skills or problem solving, sociocultural therapy workshops.
Also as part of the program and in order to carry out a progressive return to the usual environment, weekly discharges were made from the center with the reference relatives, who passed without significant incidents, with toxicologically negative controls.
Upon discharge, the patient was asymptomatic and with coherent plans for the future.
Differential diagnosis Performed during his stay in the device was oriented to rule out or confirm a possible first sprout of Schizophrenia or as an alternative, an episode of Toxic Psychosis secondary to the continued consumption of significant amounts of cannabis.
Personal deterioration or reversible abstinence before completing the consolidation necessary skills for maturation as an individual could have been considered as demonstrated personality and premorbid adjustment of a schizophrenic-type syndrome
The aforementioned "mandatory" state could then be attributed to the known Amotivated Syndrome associated with chronic cannabis use.
Therefore, the diagnosis issued at discharge was (according to ICD-10 criteria): Mental and behavioral disorders due to cannabis use (dependence Dr): F 12.2 Mental and behavioral disorders due to cocaine use Sex Transmission to psychopathological device
As pharmacological treatment, one cp of escitalopram was prescribed daily administered with the tape maintenance.
