We report the case of a 25-year-old male, born in Equatorial Guinea, who was a student in Spain for 5 months.
He had no drug allergies and was occasional cocaine consumer and sporadic tobacco smoker.
The most important antecedents were episodes of infantile descent due to typhoid fever and sexual practices of risk for sexually transmitted infections.
The patient had regular check-ups in his country, having been tested for HBV, HCV, loos and HIV, being negative in his last review prior to his trip to Spain.
Infections and infestations: feverish sensation not heated together with progressive weight loss, mild anemia and lymphocytosis were observed, so he was discharged with the diagnosis of influenza-like illness and referred to the Emergency Department
During the evaluation in the consultations, the patient had fever, weight loss and anemia, so laboratory tests were requested with serology for HIV, HBV, HCV and loos, thick blood smear and antigen of Plasmodium, as well.
The patient was reviewed in consultation after the results of the tests requested, with persistent fever and positive serology for HIV, so she was admitted for study.
On examination at admission the patient was febrile (38.5oC), with a blood pressure of 125/100 mmHg, without skin and mucosal lesions or lymphadenopathy.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed rhythmic cardiac sounds without audible murmurs and a conserved vesicular murmur.
Abdominal palpation revealed right hypochondrium discomfort without defense and no visceromegaly.
The rest of the examination showed no other remarkable alterations.
In the imaging tests requested from previous consultations at admission, both chest X-ray and abdominal ultrasound showed no abnormalities.
The hemogram showed normocytic anemia and normochroma with hemoglobin (Hb) of 10.3 g/dl, 4,460 leukocytes/μL (neutrophils: 62.2%, lymphocytes: 1.2%,▁eosinophils:
Biochemistry showed hypertransaminasemia (GOT: 139 U/L, GPT: 146 U/L), with CPK of 678 mg/dL, ferritin of 1.540 ng/mL reactive protein 47.34
Renal function and grade were within the normal range, although proteinuria was present in non-nephrotic patients with hypoalbuminemia.
Coagulation times were longer than control (PT: 1.18 times; APTT: 1.25 times).
The HIV plasma viral load was greater than 2,000,000 copies/ml and the CD4 count showed 65 cells/μL.
The patient was positive for HBV surface antigen with 1,278 copies of viral DNA/ml.
The following determinations were negative: serology for HCV and loos, cryptococcal antigen in blood, study of Plasmodium (gross cake and antigen), blood smear, analysis and culture of CSF.
Given the diagnosis of HIV infection, antiretroviral treatment was initiated with coverage for HBV with raltegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir.
The persistence of fever and constitutional symptoms were extracted hemocultives for mycobacteria and requested fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy, fundus ox visualization and computed tomography (CT) of the chest and abdomen.
Sputum smears of the samples obtained by fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy were negative, and▁choroid tubers were not observed in the eye fundus.
The patient remained with fever, palpable laterocervical and submandibular lymph nodes and abdominal pain.
A CT scan showed mild abdominal enlargement with multiple non-cystic poorly defined hypodense lesions disseminated by the splenic parenchyma, compatible with microabscesses.
In the▁thorax multiple necrotic lymph nodes of pathological size were observed, mainly at the right supraclavicular level, hyliar and mediastinal, in addition to a tree-in-bud pattern in the pulmonary parenchyma.
Differential diagnosis We present the case of a patient with a recent diagnosis of HIV infection who presented fever and weight loss, together with bronchial adenocarcinoma and pulmonary microabscesses splenic enlargement, in addition to the pattern of adenopathies in disseminated
Given the clinical features of our patient and the findings found in imaging tests, we must consider the following differential diagnoses: Solid▁neoplasms.
Despite persistent fever, the possibility of a solid neoplasm could not be ruled out in this patient, given the constitutional picture presented.
However, after performing chest and abdominal CT, this entity was ruled out.
The presence of multiple pathological lymph nodes, together with the existence of B symptoms (fever and weight loss), forced us to consider the presence of a lymphoma, which can give splenoidal lesions that mimic other objective entities.
Among the▁lymphoproliferative disorders, the possibility of Castleman's disease should be considered, a rare entity characterized by systemic symptoms including fever, weakness, severe weight loss, generalized adenopathy and hepatomegaly.
Pathological examination of the lymph nodes reveals angiofollicular hyperplasia, atrophic germinal centers▁surrounded by concentric layers of small B cells, with a typical plasma image of the skin of the onion, and intense hyperplasia of interfollicular cells.
In patients with HIV infection appears mainly in the presence of active infection by human herpesvirus type 8 (HHV-8).
Kaposi's sarcoma could also be considered as a neoplasm, which can cause splenic lesions that can be confused with microabscesses in imaging tests.
The absence of typical skin lesions would go against this entity.
Infections.
The presence of fever, adenopathy and splenic microabscesses in a patient with HIV infection should be considered a number of infectious agents as the cause of the clinical picture.
Thus, for example, disseminated lung infection due to severe pneumonia caused by jirovecii can cause splenic abscesses, but these abscesses appear in the context of a severe pneumonia caused by this microorganism or in patients who undergo prophylaxis with penileitis.
Another entity to consider is disseminated infection by Aspergillus spp., which can cause splenic lesions in patients with HIV infection.
In addition to a low CD4 count, as presented by our patient, other factors such as corticosteroid treatment or severe neutropenia coexist, and it would be expected to find more pulmonary involvement than the one observed.
Hepatosplenic candidiasis develops with microabscesses in liver and spleen and is associated with fever, but it is a typical entity of patients presenting with candidiasis when neutropenia is recovered, so it would be very unlikely in the case
Another entity to consider is bacillary angiomatosis caused by Bartonella henselae, which can affect the spleen, but our patient did not present typical skin lesions.
Finally, the microorganism most frequently associated with splenic microabscesses in patients with HIV infection is Mycobacterium tuberculosis, within the infectious etiology.
Disseminated tuberculosis presents with fever and lymphadenopathy in multiple territories, often necrotic, and can cause hepatosplenic enlargement, which is sometimes suggestive of microabscesses at the hepatic level.
Regardless of the cause of the clinical picture, given the persistence of fever, elevated ferritin and stenosis associated with the presence of a hemophagocytic syndrome, which can present as idiopathic or infectious, should be considered.
For diagnosis, eight criteria should be established: elevated interleukin (high fever), lower neutrophil count (38.3 oC); high lymphocyte count (lower killbocytes, 500 ng/mL); low neutrophil count (lower neutrophil count), lower neutrophil count (500 μL).
She decided to initiate empirical tuberculous treatment with rifampicin, pyrazinamide, etham, and surgical biopsy isonized, and aspiration was performed with a smear microscopy (FNA) showing a negative result of a left submandibular adenopathy,
The patient was initially febrile and ferritin increased to a maximum of 7,146 ng/mL.
Analysis of NK cell activity showed normal results, but soluble alpha receptor for interleukin-2 was elevated with a value of 3,135 U/mL.
Bone marrow biopsy was not performed to confirm or rule out hemophagocytosis because the patient began to improve clinically and analytically.
Finally, M. tuberculosis, susceptible to streptomycin, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, isoniazid and etambu bag, grew in mycobacterial hemcoulants.
The anatomopathological study of the lymph node biopsy showed necrotizing granulomatous lymphadenitis with Ziehl-Neelsen stain, PAS and negative Grole stain, without suggestive findings Cast de lymphomaman.
The polymerase chain reaction for HHV-8 was positive in blood.
Final diagnosis Disseminated tuberculosis with splenic, pulmonary and lymph node involvement in patient with HIV infection.
HBV and HHV-8 coinfection.
