A 55-year-old male with a history of ischemic heart disease was admitted to the emergency department with a fever of 6 months of intermittent evolution, accompanied by chills, sweating, asthenia and anorexia.
On physical examination, the patient presented a temperature of 39oC, a septic mouth and cardiac auscultation showed multifocal hypersensitivity to 90 bpm with systolic murmur III/VI.
Laboratory tests showed hemoglobin 12.5 g/dL, hematocrit 37%, MCV 91 fL, normal white and platelet series, and CRP 9.0 mg/dL.
The chest X-ray was normal.
Serial hemocultives were extracted and the patient was admitted.
A transesophageal echocardiogram was performed, in which two mitral valve stenosis with mild mitral regurgitation were observed.
Empirical antibiotic treatment was initiated for infective endocarditis with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (2/4 g, iv) and gentamicin (8 h, iv).
Seven days after admission, bacterial growth was detected in 3 of the 4 bottles of the hemocultives.
No microorganisms were observed in direct Gram stain.
At 48 hours, in the subculture performed in chocolate agar in CO2 atmosphere, punctiform▁greyish colonies grew and Gram stain corresponded to gram negative▁cocci.
Biochemical tests were as follows: positive catalase, negative oxidase, negative indole-negative urea, negative indole-negative glycoprotein (UAD), and lactose.
The microorganism did not grow in aerobic atmosphere at 37oC or in EMB agar, but in Brucella enanaerobiosis agar.
A subculture was performed in thioglycolate broth and after 7 days of incubation growth was observed in a thickened form adhered to the wall of the tube to later become diffuse throughout the lime.
Serological tests for Brucella were negative.
Due to the microbiological results obtained and the appearance of new febrile episodes it was decided to change antibiotic treatment with ceftriaxone (2g/24 h, iv).
The original culture was incubated in a prolonged CO2 atmosphere and 25 days later, under low-power optical microscopy, glossy colonies with stellate appearance in the center were observed.
Susceptibility study was performed using the disk-plate method after prolonged infraction, sensitive to penicillin, cephaloporins, aminoglycosides and determinations resistant to quinolones, tetramoxazole, rifampicin and glycos
The clinical evolution of the patient was satisfactory without complications.
She was discharged and continued with outpatient antibiotic treatment, completing 5 weeks of treatment with ceftriaxone.
The existence of an endocarditis of subacute evolution and late growth in the hemocultive of Gram-negative bacilli should raise suspicion of the participation of microorganisms of the HACEK group, which includes special bacteria of growth require hostage.
This group includes the following microorganisms: Haemophilus (H. aphrophilus, H. paraphrophilus, etc.
( ), Actinobacillus actintemcomitans, Cardiùminis, Eikenella corrodens and Kingella kingae.
The characteristics common to all of them are the following: they are part of the normal flora of the oropharyngeal cavity and upper respiratory tract. These are slower Gram-negative▁cocci and are very slow growing diseases that require very slow clinical endocarditis CO2.
According to microbiological results, A. actintemcomitans was identified as the causative microorganism of this infection.
It is a capnophyllic Gram-negative cocobacillus, facultative anaerobic, of very slow growth, which is part of the normal bacterial flora of the oral cavity.
It requires blood-enriched culture media and does not grow in selective media such as MacConkey agar or EMB.
Endocarditis caused by A. actintemcomitans is very rare in both native and prosthetic valves, with 102 cases reported in the literature to date.
It is the microorganism of the HACEK group that most frequently produces endocarditis, especially in patients with underlying cardiac diseases.
The gateway is usually an oropharyngeal infection and may also be secondary to instrumentation in the oral cavity.
On other occasions, as occurred in our case, the origin is related to a septic mouth with teeth in poor condition.
Acetaminophen, penicillin acomitans, is sensitive to cephalosporins, aztreonam, rifampicin, aminoglycosides, cotrimoxazole, tetra-ramfenol, and quinolone.
In endocarditis caused by this microorganism, the most commonly used treatment regimen has been the association of penicillin or ampicillin with an aminoglycoside intravenously, although penicillin-producing strains have been described.
For this reason, third-generation cephalosporins, associated with omn to rifampicin or an aminoglycoside, are an option to consider due to their excellent in vitro activity.
The recommended duration of treatment is 4 weeks for native valve endocarditis and 6 weeks for prosthetic valves.
The use of fluoroquinolones, as well as cotrimoxazole or aztreonam, should be considered as an alternative in patients who do not▁tolerate or are allergic to rifampicin, with high sensitivity to beta blockers.
Isolated cases of complete healing have been reported after oral ciprofloxacin treatment, either alone or in combination with rifampicin or sulphanilic acid, for a longer period of time than with parenteral treatment (8 weeks).
These data suggest that oral fluoroquinolones can be a valid option, either alone or in combination with other antimicrobials, in episodes of A. actincetemcomitans endocarditis without complications of severity
Valve replacement is necessary in 24% of cases.
