This is a 7-year-old male patient, previously healthy, born and resident in Cortijo, Catemaco, Veracruz.
It coexists with cattle, pigs and birds.
The patient presented with a clinical picture of 15 days of evolution characterized by fever quantified up to 39.5 °C of vespertino vespertino, frontal edema associated only with right▁malaise, general pain in right lower extremities and fever myalgia
Acquired insect bite three days before (08th of September 2007) in the right supra-anterior region, which was seen by the mother and referred to her as "chinche".
The patient was evaluated by a private physician in his community and received treatment with nimesulide, dicloxacillin and dexamethasone for three days without improvement.
The patient was then seen at the Zapotitla Health Centre where the National Institute of Paediatrics (INP) referred to as periorbital colitis (26 September 2007).
Upon admission to the NPI, the patient is conscious, painless, adenomotor movements with erythematous and decamative lesion above the right upper eyelid of approximately 3x2 cm, submandibular swelling of the right lower jawbone diameter (maxilla).
Cardiopulmonary function was uncompromised, no visceromegaly was found and the limbs were unaltered.
Blood biometry was performed, which reported the following: hemoglobin 12.5 g/dL; hematocrit 35%; mean corpuscular volume (MCV), 82.3 69% fL; mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (GBC) 258.7 mg / sediment;
Total serum tests were also performed: sodium, 134 mmo/L; potassium, 4 mmo/L; chlorine, 102 mmo/L; calcium deficiency, 9.8 mg/dL; total bilirubin transferase, 57.1 mg/dL; albumin gamma;
The echocardiogram was normal.
The day after admission, enzyme linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA) was performed to detect IgM antibodies and to diagnose Chagas disease, which was reported reactive.
In addition, the peripheral blood smear analyzed in the parasitology research department showed the presence of trypomas, which is why a study was initiated for the detection of this agent in the family.
A diagnosis of American trypanosomiasis in acute phase is made, the case is notified to the National Center of Epidemiological Surveillance and Disease Control (CENAVESE), in Mexico, and treatment with nifurtimox is initiated 5 mg.
The initial dose for 72 hours is well tolerated and then the dose is increased to 10 mg/kg/day every 8 hours for 90 days, which is monitored by liver function tests, electrocardiogram and echocardiogram.
The patient had a good evolution, adequate tolerance to treatment and progressive decrease of symptoms.
Cardiological evaluation was performed with the help of a chest X-ray and an electrocardiogram that were normal and an echocardiogram, which showed a structurally healthy heart.
Currently, the patient is asymptomatic, completed treatment with nifurtimox and serological studies for Chagas disease have been reported negative.
