Consultation time Diplopia and headache after cranioencephalic trauma (CET).
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) This is a 41-year-old female smoker with a history of thalassemia, tension headache, overactive bladder without response to anticholinergic personality disorder.
A CT scan of the head is performed by the patient's professional staff, who detect a paresis of the VI cranial nerve and report that the symptoms are not related to the accident suffered, which is why they are referred to their family doctor.
Neurological examination was performed without alterations, so observation and analgesia are recommended.
After several consultations and due to the persistence of the clinic after a month of evolution, it was decided to refer the patient to Neurology.
In her first visit to the Neurology outpatient clinic, the patient also reported headaches and diplopia, which persisted 2 months after TBI, decreased visual acuity.
The neurological examination did not show limitation of eye movements, as well as other alterations of cranial nerves, strength and limb sensitivity.
Gait and balance are not altered either.
They request cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as well as interconsultation to ophthalmology and are discharged if the complementary tests are normal.
Diagnostic judgement: post-traumatic diplopia, unable to rule out its functional origin), chronic headache (tensive + medication abuse).
▁Complementary tests and evolution: a cranial MRI is performed in which there are supratentorial white matter lesions with periventricular and juxtacortical demyelinating characteristics that present multiple sclerosis (MS) as first possibility, with e
Angioresonance of the supraaortic trunks was also performed without findings of interest.
After imaging test results, the patient is again cited to explain the findings and propose lumbar puncture.
The patient persists with headaches associated with generalized asthenia, with no other new findings.
Blood count, biochemistry with renal and hepatic profile, TSH, ACE, vitamin B12 and folic acid below normal limits, HCV beta-proteinogram, anticardiolipin antibodies (ANCA, HBV anticardiolipin antibodies)
Immunized against measles, rubella, parotitis EBV, HSV, VZZ.
Ophthalmology performed optical coherence tomography (OCT) with involvement of the optic nerve of two temporal sectors of the right eye and four temporal sectors in the left eye.
Decrease of macular ganglion cells in left eye.
After lumbar puncture is confirmed in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of oligoclonal bands, so, along with the findings described in MRI, reinforce the diagnosis of MS, and the patient is referred to our hospital with demyelinating diseases.
Genetic testing was requested to rule out CADASIL (Cercion Autosomal Dominant Artheriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy), which was negative and new cranial and medullary MRI.
The skull was unchanged from the previous.
Spinal MRI shows small focal spinal cord lesions at C3 and C4, which could correspond to demyelinating foci.
Amantadine is indicated and it is proposed to initiate terifluid as a disease modifying drug in March 2020.
At the time of this last visit the patient is without diplopia, recurrent headaches persist.
Urology consultation was performed due to the incontinence that the patient continues to present.
During the diagnostic process the patient has come to our Primary Care consultation for renewal of the part of the sick leave, in these consultations it has been used to carry out a support to the patient for the diagnosis and try to solve other doubts.
