A 51-year-old patient presented to the emergency department with a 10-day history of fever.
She reported no history of interest except smoking 12 cigarettes/day.
The anamnesis revealed dysthermic sensation denying infectious symptoms at any level.
Located excursive to the field to collect mushrooms, insect bites.
He did not report any relevant epidemiological history except contact with Mexican relatives who came to Spain after his brother's death.
In the emergency department, the patient remained hemodynamically stable, with a temperature of 37.6oC; physical examination was normal, with no target skin lesions.
Analytically, mild thrombopenia (105,000), mild hypertransaminasemia, in addition to elevated other acute phase reactants are highlighted.
Chest X-ray showed no pneumonic consolidation.
She is admitted to Internal Medicine (IM)
to study febrile syndrome without source.
Upon admission, the patient remains afflicted.
Reinterrogate refers contact with a newborn lamb two weeks before the onset of symptoms.
At this time, the physical examination showed an evanescent morbidlyform exanthema with no changes.
Only hypertransaminasemia persists in the laboratory.
Abdominal ultrasound showed mild hepatomegaly.
Viral and bacterial serology were requested and discharged with a two-week follow-up visit to the M.I.
Without waiting for the consultation, he came to the emergency room seven days later due to recurrence of fever, so he was readmitted to M.I.
(normal and blood test in which hypertransaminasemia persists)
Serology is negative for hepatotropic viruses, HIV, CMV, Toxoplasma, Leishmania, treponemics and cryptosidiosis negative IgM, IgM Boroxigenic CMV and IgG positive for EBV.
These results begin with the initial presentation of the disease (100 mg every 12 hours for 14 days). A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, which showed no valvular alterations suggestive of endocarditis.
She's sent to M.I.C.U.S.▁~~~ consults.
with new serology in 15 days positive in the latter the negativity of all the previously positive (considering the previous false positives) except for the seroconversion to IgG of Coxiella phase (anticipherent).
