Anamnesis A 73-year-old male presented with a very severe explosive-onset headache.
He had no known vascular risk factors, and as the only medical history he reported non-complicated recurrent ureteral colic.
He had suffered an ocular trauma from a child, which left him as a sequel a moderate decrease of visual acuity in the right eye.
He had no family history of primary headaches and one of his brothers had died at 36 years of age due to a brain tumor.
She did not take any regular medication.
Four days before admission, while standing and without having performed any effort or maneuvers of Valsalva, she began to present abruptly a little severe left frontal pain (10/10 in the left frontal region) extended retrocular scale.
He came to his health center at that time, where he detected systolic blood pressure greater than 200 mmHg, which decreased to normal values with two 25 mg captopryl tablets.
He was diagnosed with hypertensive crisis and paracetamol was prescribed as symptomatic treatment of his headache.
Three days later, the patient came to the hospital due to persistent headache despite the prescribed analgesia.
Headache was continuously maintained in the same location.
The intensity was somewhat lower (7/10), although occasional exacerbations of very severe pain lasting a few seconds were added to the baseline pain.
These paroxysmal places were not associated with gestures of authentication, nor were they triggered by gestures such as washing the face, speaking, chewing, brushing teeth or shaving.
However, he did not feel slight discomfort with the pressure of the left eyeball.
The headache did not cease at night, and to a great extent it made it difficult for him to sleep.
It was not accompanied by autonomic ocular or facial symptoms or photophobia, phobia or osmophobia.
With pain, at times the patient felt nausea, which did not induce vomiting.
He did not report fever or other associated symptoms.
Physical examination upon arrival at the emergency room revealed a blood pressure of 175/115 mmHg, which required treatment with nitroglycerin infusion pump to normalize.
The patient had no dyspneic sensation, vomiting or chest pain.
Firstly, assessment from the Emergency Room was requested.
Ophthalmologists did not detect any signs of acute eye disease.
There were no alterations in the anterior segment of the eye, the intraocular pressure was 13 mmHg and the examination was normal.
The patient was then referred for evaluation by the Neurology Department.
On physical examination, the patient was in good general condition, with hydration and normal skin and mucous coloration.
The patient was eupneic, afflicted with a central heart rate of 66 bpm.
The carotid pulse was palpable, symmetrical, and vascular murmurs were not auscultated.
Cardiopulmonary, abdominal and lower limb examination showed no abnormalities.
On neurological examination, the patient was conscious, alert and oriented, with no alterations in the rest of cognitive functions.
Confrontation campimetry was normal.
The visual acuity in the right eye was 0.4 (without improvement with the sternopeic hole) and in the left eye was the unit.
She did not present dyschromatopsia.
The eye fundus was normal, without papilledema.
The pupils were pharmacologically ill, so the existence of pupillary anomalies could not be assessed.
There were no limitations in eye movements, diplopia or nystagmus, and eye movements did not cause increased pain.
Pathologic features, conjunctival injection or proptosis were not observed.
The examination of the V cranial nerve, both in its motor function and in its corrective function, was normal.
Examination of the VII cranial nerve and lower cranial nerves was also normal.
The rest of the neurological examination was also normal.
There were no limitations in cervical movements and the signs of meningism were negative.
The fixation of the supraorbital scott, trochlear region and infraorbital hole did not trigger pain in situ or referred pain.
The temporal arteries had good pulsatility and were neither thickened nor hypersensitive.
There were no painful points with fixation of other structures of the head and neck.
▁Complementary tests • A sample was extracted for complete blood analysis, with determinations of C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and cardiac enzymes within normal limits.
• The electrocardiogram showed no abnormalities.
• No signs of intraaxial or extraaxial bleeding or acute ischemia or dilatation of the ventricular system were observed on cranial computed tomography (CT).
• Since four days had passed since the onset of the clinical picture, which had debuted as thunder headache, and given the low sensitivity of CT for the detection of subarachnoid hemorrhage after 12 hours of diagnostic lumbar puncture was performed 1,
Cerebrospinal fluid outflow pressure was normal, the presence of dyschromia was ruled out and the cytobiochemical analysis showed normal cellular count (1 normal marker and 0 leukocytes per microliter), together with normal protein binding.
The patient was managed conservatively and managed conservatively, but remained in the emergency department for persistent headache and intractable despite treatment with metamizole, ketorolac.
On the day after admission, the patient developed a skin rash in the left frontal region, with numerous erythematous▁papules, grouped and crust vesicles, which outlined the root of the scalp midline and does not exceed the skin.
Herpes, vesicles, and crusts characteristic of herpes zoster in the territory of the left ophthalmic nerve (V1).
This cutaneous involvement circumscribed in a specific dermatome, in this case the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve (V1), was diagnosed with herpes zoster by reactivation of varicella zoster virus in▁ganglia, acan
In addition, severe edema of the left eyelid was observed, with difficulty opening the nerve branch of the cleft palate and associated malformation at the level of the nasal root (Hutchinson sign).
For this reason we have hurried to request a revision, which showed conjunctivitis, corneal affection with disseminated superficial pigmentation, without stromal involvement and without signs of uveitis.
Diagnosis Herpes zoster in the territory of the ophthalmic nerve (V1).
Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment was initiated with oral arsenic at a dose of 800 mg five times a day and topical treatment with the same antiviral in ocular ointment, accompanied by bacterial superinfection prophylaxis.
Treatment was continued for ten days.
The clinical picture was satisfactory and the cutaneous affection was satisfactory, so that the vesiculocostal lesions disappeared in less than two weeks without sequelae.
However, the patient developed post-infectious neuralgia in the affected territory, which did not subside with maximum doses of oral gabapentin.
At this time, it is in test period with a local adhesive 5% lidocaine dressing.
