A 62-year-old man.
No known drug allergies.
Smoker with clinical criteria of chronic bronchitis.
As cardiovascular risk factors: hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus in treatment with oral antidiabetics and dyslipidemia.
He was operated on in 2009 at another center for an abdominal aortic aneurysm with resection of the aneurysm sac and implantation of a prosthesis-bifemoral prosthesis.
Subsequently, in 2012, the control computed tomography (CT) showed another right iliac aneurysm with▁retrograde filling, so the surgical procedure was performed again and ligation of the external iliac artery was performed in the right external iliac artery.
In Octubre 2013, the patient is already in our city and attends Vascular Surgery consultations for pain in the right pelvic area, where there is an indurated and non-wheeled area of about 5-6 cm.
The patient did not report fever, although the dysthermic sensation was not thermometered.
No other pathological findings were found in the rest of the examination.
Analytically, there was no leukocytosis or neutrophilia (leucocytes 10180 /mm3, polymorphonuclear 57.8%), with a C-reactive protein (CRP) of 35.2 mg/l and renal function alterations.
The chest X-ray was normal and CT angiography showed a right internal diameter of 6 cm, thrombus and ipsilateral accessory dissection of the iliac branch semilllen ipsilateral internal diameter, with an external iliac branch of 6 mm as well as the iliac branch.
The patient was admitted with clinical judgment of abscess of the right iliac psoas and suspected infection of the vascular prosthesis (right branch).
Additional tests are requested to study the condition.
Differential diagnosis Infections of the vascular prostheses constitute an important complication after repair of aortic aneurysms.
They have a low incidence, ranging from 0.4 to 3%, which has been greatly reduced with the development of percutaneous techniques for placement, but persisting with a high rate of morbidity and mortality (rate of mortality between 25-30%).
They will present with a wide range of symptoms and at the nonspecific pair, which can be observed with fever with thyritone, general▁malaise, fistulae gastrointestinal (superficial bleeding) and local pain.
The earliest cases (post-implantation) are frequently suspected, but in later infections, the symptoms are usually more common, and fever may be absent in up to 30% of cases.
Different micro-organisms should be taken into account depending on the area and time of infection.
In early and pelvic infections, the most frequently isolated microorganism is aureus, whereas in abdominal infections▁predominate Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Pseudomonas aeruginosa, especially if there are digestive complications fistula, intestinal Staphylococcus, etc.
On the other hand, in late infections, coagulase-negative staphylococci such as Staphylococcus epidermis acquire greater importance and it should be emphasized that up to 30% of infections can be polymicrobes2.
Hemocultives have a very low rate of positivity (20-25%) and diagnosis is based on analytical determinations (elevation of acute phase reactants), culture of infected material and more modern imaging techniques such as PET-CT1.
In case the infection is correct and cultures repeatedly negative, infection by non-cultivable microorganisms should also be suspected in synthetic environment, such as Coxiella burnetti, for which there are specific serological tests.
With respect to psoas abscesses, this pathology has a low incidence which has increased in recent years thanks to the use of imaging tests such as CT.
It is a collection of pus at the level of this muscle but can extend to the inguinal region.
Taking into account its pathogenesis, psoas abscesses are classified into: • Primary abscesses: in Europe between 17 and 61% of the abscesses are primary, they appear after the lymphatic dissemination.
They are more frequent in those subjects with associated comorbidity: elderly, diabetics, alcoholism or previous trauma.
• Secondary abscesses: They occur as direct dissemination due to contiguity of infection in other adjacent structures, doubts about other structures if the pso abscess is the cause or consequence of infection in other structures.
Among the most common adjacent foci: gastrointestinal tract (inflammatory bowel disease, diverticulitis and other structures), genitourinary tract (pyelonephritis, prostatitis), osteoarticular structures
In a series of 40 cases of infected aortic aneurysms, 20% were diagnosed with pso abscess.
They have also been described in cases of infections of endovascular material.
The differential diagnosis should be established mainly with psoas hematoma, which occurs in anticoagulated patients or with coagulation disorders, giving a similar clinical picture but with a positive relation to localized arthritis or hip pain, also giving rise to retroce
The diagnosis is based on imaging techniques and the profitability of microbiological study is variable, from 90-100% in aspirate culture and much lower, 25-50% in hemocultives.
The hemocultivation requests after admission were repeatedly negative after 7 days of isolation.
Concomitantly, leukocyte-labeled radiolabelled radiopharmaceutical was not observed at the level of the protaxis bypass or of other sites where the patient developed an infectious process or underwent scintigraphy.
High suspicion of infection, absence of microbiological isolation and accessibility of psoas abscess, was decided to perform CT-guided puncture.
25cc of liquid is extracted, which is sent to culture, resulting in negative aerobic and anaerobic culture after 10 days of purulent secretion.
Establishment of a diagnosis of infectious process of the vascular protuberant phase in a patient with a more severe course and paucis infection in an infected patient, finally request serology of Coxiella burnetti, with positive titres
Treatment was initiated with 100mg/12hours of methotrexate combined with 200mg/12hours of hydroxychloroquine after deciding jointly with vascular surgery, previous antibiotic treatment with prosthesis explant and implantation of a new antibiotic.
▁Periodic reviews were continued, keeping the patient asymptomatic, with excellent tolerance to oral medication as well as disappearance of the abscess of the abscess and of the rest of the surgical risk due to the exposition of the high form of dementia,
Finally, after completing three years of treatment, it was decided to suspend it.
The patient has continued close follow-up in the clinic (two years after treatment completion), with serial PETCT scans that still do not show signs of acute infection as well as determination of antibody titers against Coxiella burnetti usually remain.
Final diagnosis Infection of vascular-bifemoral prosthesis vs iliac arteritis due to Coxiella burnetti (chronic Q fever).
Abscess of psoas by contiguity, secondary to this infection.
