A 21-year-old woman with no known drug allergies or toxic habits.
She had been diagnosed with congenital malformations in the restrictive childhood and was under follow-up due to cardiopathy.
The patient did not take the usual treatment, had an active life and worked with hairdressing.
He was admitted to the emergency room of our hospital with a feverish peaks lasting one week and profuse sweating.
He reported having lost three kilograms of weight in that week without reducing his intake.
He had no other associated symptoms.
On initial examination, the patient was stable and presented a systolic murmur on the left edge.
No lymphadenopathy or enlargement were evident on examination.
There were no parenchymal alterations in the chest X-rays.
Analyses were performed in the emergency department: complete blood count, coagulation and normal gas.
Urinary sediment showed no abnormalities.
There were no ionic changes, renal function or hepatic profile.
Only a CRP of 42.4 mg/L was highlighted.
Hemocultives were extracted, presenting fever and a moment of the tiritone, and the patient was admitted to the hospital for study.
An abdominal ultrasound showed a 17 cm enlarged spleen, which is why the study was extended with an abdominal CT scan.
In this study, small opacities of the pulmonary parenchyma were observed, which were patchy, peripheral and bilateral, and of alveolar and vascular appearance, as well as enlargement or mass not already mentioned. No alterations were▁appreciated adenopathy.
The radiologist concluded in his report that the findings were nonspecific and could correspond to multiple causes including inflammatory or infectious diseases.
An autoimmunity study was performed, including antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, which was negative.
The patient's proteinogram and immunoglobulin levels were normal.
On the third day of admission, they informed of microbiology due to the growth of gram-positive bacilli in a bottle of blood cultures.
The results supported the diagnosis.
Differential diagnosis We present the case of a patient who presented with fever for one week with stenosis and nodular lung images.
Choledochomegaly is a nonspecific sign that can be secondary to several pathologies, and many of them can present with fever.
It can be secondary to: a) acute infections such as mononucleosis, viral hepatitis, CMV or toxoplasma infection; b) subacute or chronic infections such as tuberculosis, tropical endocarditis, brucellosis, syphilis or malaria are
Multiple pathology manifestations can also cause enlargement as myelooproliferative processes, lymphomas, water leukemias, thalassemias, spherocytosis, autoimmune hemolysis or anemia sealant.
These syndromes are usually accompanied by alterations in the blood count and/or the presence of lymph nodes that we did not see in our patient.
Other causes of congestive heart failure include congestive heart failure, secondary to cirrhosis, portal hypertension or heart failure that was not present in our case.
Casual metastases such as hemangiomas or splanchnic metastases may also cause them.
Inflammatory diseases such as sarcoidosis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, or other deposit diseases such as Gaucher disease, amyloidosis, or Niemann-Pick syndrome
Our patient also presented nodular pulmonary images that described small opacities of the patched, peripheral and bilateral pulmonary parenchyma of alveolar appearance.
In the differential diagnosis of multiple lung masses, the neoplasic origin of these tumors should always be taken into account, and if there are multiple masses, the possibility of metastasis in the cuff-bound should be considered.
However, there are also benign entities that can mimic lung cancer. These can be classified into four major groups: 1.
Congenital: bronchial atresia; intralobar sequestration, arteriovenous malformations or bronchogenic cysts.
2.
Infections: lung abscess, round pneumonia, hydatid cyst, ichthyosis, mycetomas, septic emboli or granulomas 3.
Malignant colitis: sarcoidosis,▁bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia (BONO), Wegener's granuloma or amyloidosis.
4.
Other: bruising, pulmonary infarction, pneumoconiosis.
The fact that these images are multiple, and that they were not present in the patient's previous imaging tests, discards many of these options.
When the presence of fever polyphane is associated with autoimmune pneumonia and nodular lung images, we consider as the most probable diagnoses an infectious process that could cause septic pulmonary emboli, amyloidosis and granulomatous BO.
The fact that the autoimmunity study was negative allows ruling out granulomatosis.
The patient had no dyspnea, cough, respiratory failure or other respiratory symptoms that made us suspect the presence of BONO.
Normal values of the proteinogram and immunoglobulins make the presence of amyloidosis unlikely.
Having suspected an infectious process in embolism, a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, which showed an image of vegetation lobule on the right side of the communication pulmonary valve stenosis.
Cardiac valves showed no significant changes or vegetations.
The microbiology service performed an analysis of MALDI-TOF spectrometry on the sample and classified it as Abiotrophia defectiva.
The antibiogram showed sensitivity for betalactam antibiotics and aminoglycosides.
Our patient would therefore meet certain criteria for endocarditis, according to modified Duke criteria.
A major criterion such as vegetation type endorse 4 minors (predisposing cardiopathy, fever with temperature above 38oC, pulmonary embolisms and a positive hemocultive).
Final diagnosis Endocrinitis each infectious related to embolism A 8biotrophia defectiva with septic pulmonary sinuses was established with antibiotic treatment with ceftriaxone 2 grams every 12 hours and gentamicin 80 mg.
The patient suffered from constipation since the first day of treatment.
The patient showed progressive improvement in general condition.
She did not present cardiac failure at any time.
Weekly control transthoracic echocardiograms were performed, which showed no changes with respect to the diagnosis echocardiogram.
One week after antibiotic treatment, blood cultures were negative.
After two weeks with intravenous antibiotic treatment with two antimicrobials; given the clinical stability of the patient was discharged, continuing 4 more weeks of intravenous ceftriaxone in day hospital regime.
Weekly medical check-ups were performed with laboratory tests and echocardiogram.
At 6 weeks the patient was asymptomatic, acute phase reactants had decreased until normalization, and echocardiograms remained similar at the time of diagnosis.
