Anamnesis An 84-year-old woman with remarkable personal history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus and osteoporosis all of them under pharmacological treatment.
She came to the emergency room with a fever of 48 hours duration, associated with urinary symptoms and right glue cutaneous lesions less than 12 hours of evolution.
Family members reported that for a month and a half the patient had neuropatic pain in the same limb for whom she was receiving treatment with tramadol and oral lyrica and for whom she had received intramuscular metamizole several times prior to the emergency department.
Physical examination Stuporous patient with hypotension of 80/60, tachycardia of 150 bpm and febricula of 37.7 oC.
In the gluteus, trochanteric region and external lateral face of the right thigh erythema pink plaque extensive and diffuse, non-palpable and with non-net limits, with a decrease in local temperature compared to the rest of the limb.
On it, there are several plates, some of which are naked white with smaller size and other connectives of several centimeters; with a peripheral white border geographically very net, halos and not palpable.
A more intense erythematous zone, poorly delimited with a central point punctiform violet, stood out in the supero-extern quadrant of the glue.
▁Complementary laboratory tests showed: • Acute renal failure data (urea 180 mg/dL and creatine 2.30 mg/dL), CRP over 90 with procalcitonin 46.34 ng/mL
• In urine, you would get bacteriuria.
• In the complete blood count anemia of 10.8 g/dL hemoglobin and absolute neutrophil count of 114.000 platelets/mL and 84% presence of white blood cells within the normal range (8.400/mL) but neutrophilia was 8%
• Coagulation with fibrinogen derived from 917 mg/dL.
• A simple radiography of the hip and pelvis increase in volume of the right glue and thigh compared to the contralateral hip was performed, as well as thickening and cross-linking of subcutaneous cellular tissue with a delimited gas bubble.
A skin sample was taken for microscopic study in which acute and chronic ischemic changes of▁epidermal tissue and chronic edema and acute inflammation were observed, as well as purpura and signs of vascular structures vasculitis.
Diagnosis Septic shock in the context of necrotizing fasciitis secondary to IM injection of metamizole.
Treatment The patient was admitted for intravenous antibiotic treatment, fasciotomy and emergency surgical debridement were performed by the traumatology service.
During surgery, a large amount of malolating liquid material was drained, after which initial clinical improvement of the patient was achieved, with good level of consciousness, normalization of renal function and parameters.
During the same period, samples were taken for microbiological culture that were positive for Escherichia coli, starting directed antimicrobial therapy.
Despite this initial improvement, during the following days skin lesions continued to spread, new necrosis plaques appeared and required up to four more surgical debridements.
In all of them, samples were obtained for microbiological study, being positive for multiresistant Acinetobacter baumannii, sensitive only to tige.
Despite the therapeutic effort, the patient continued to worsen and died 7 days after the last surgical drainage.
