A 59-year-old male with no known drug allergies and no toxic habits with a history of dyslipidemia, COPD with functional grade II/IV (GOLD) and stable chronic ischemic heart disease type angina.
She underwent usual home treatment with acetyl salicylic acid 100 mg/24 hours, atorvastatin 40 mg/24 hours, diltiazem 120 mg/12 hours and lasartan 50 mg/24 hours.
She is admitted to the Cardiology Department scheduled for cardiac catheterization.
After the procedure and during the ICU stay, the venous procedure showed acute myocardial infarction in the lower territory, slow atrial fibrillation and severe hypotension, requiring new catheterization and hemodynamic support (not requiring mechanical ventilation, although central catheter).
She was admitted to the Cardiology Department after 72 hours.
The next day the patient began with voiding symptoms, suprapump pain and fever of up to 39oC with intense titren.
There were no data of interest in the examination except for pain related to hypogastric tenderness (the urinary catheter had been removed on arrival at the service).
The patient was evaluated by a plant cardiologist and, in view of a pathological urine sediment (non-white deposits in sediment), started treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875/125 mg every 8 hours.
After 48 hours, a positive urine culture for amoxicillin-clavulanic Morganella morganii and sensitive to 3rd generation cephalosporins was received.
At this time, the patient persisted with the same symptoms, so cefoxime treatment was modified 1 gr/8 hours IV.
A blood analysis was performed in which Hb 12.2 g/dL phosphorus mEq/7.9 mm3, leukocytes 12200 mm3 neutrophils (86%), glucose 120 mg/dl, urea 41 mg/dl, creatinine 1.0 mg/2.7 mg/dl total alkaline protein 127 g/dl, alkaline UGT
A moderate leukocyturia persisted in a new sediment.
A chest X-ray revealed a small left pleural effusion.
An abdominal ultrasound was reported as a small left pleural effusion, hepatic steatosis without LOES, kidneys without ultrasound abnormalities and bladder with thickened walls due to prostatic hypertrophy.
Two days later, the patient persisted with fever of up to 39oC, voiding symptoms and suprapubic pain despite treatment.
Differential diagnosis directed persistence of fever after 48-72 hours of antibiotic therapy, we raise the following differential diagnoses: 1.
Infection by resistant organism
2.
Local complications: • Acute focal nephritis: Renal inflammatory infiltrate (renal gland).
• Cortical (hematogenic) or corticomedullary (uropathogen) renal abscess.
• Emphysematous pyelonephritis.
• Papillary necrosis.
• Abscess pro- and pro-statitis.
Urinary tract infection
3.
Others: Drug fever, phlebitis, other infectious processes added... And valuation again, it is decided to extract new hemocultives, performing TC 1/8 g antibiotic treatment modified meropenem IV 24 hours and IV hours.
Morganella morganii phenotype AmpC (resistant to ampicillin, clavulanic acid and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid) was isolated in the new hemocultive.
Abdominal CT showed several prostatic abscesses.
abscessol and, since the germ is carrier of AmpC and has expressed a resistance to 3-generation cephalosporins, it was extended to the group with antibiotics due to the presence of quinopenem.
Urology ruled out surgery at this time, choosing conservative treatment.
After completing 2 weeks of treatment with meropenem, the patient was discharged and completed two weeks of treatment at home with rentobarbital 8000 gr/24 hours and trimethoprim/mg oral complications via revisions via oral midazolam 8000.
Final diagnosis Low urinary tract infection complicated with prostatic abscesses caused by Morganella morganii phenotype AmpC.
