Hakim Coleman, 25 years old, is a veteran of the U.S. army, now a student of a public university, who comes to the emergency department (ED) with his girlfriend and sister.
The examination revealed that the patient was a tall, thin, well-sitting young man with glasses.
It is expressed gently and 26 has increased speech latency.
Affect is flat except when talking about your symptoms, when you are anxious.
Mr. Coleman explained that he had come to the ED on the advice of his sister.
He said that a 'general check' would be welcome to him, for several days he had been suffering from 'friends' and 'friends of a spiritual nature' which had appeared for three months.
The headache consisted of bilateral «acute and stabbing» sensations in different parts of the head, and a kind of «small» sensation along the midline of the brain that seemed to worsen.
Mr. Coleman described that his vices were "alcohol, cigarettes, not respecting my parents and girls."
I know all that caused guilt, anxiety or uneasiness with respect to his military duty when he was on duty in Iraq, but he had joined an evangelical church four months before because he felt guilty.
Three months before he began to "hear of voces which tried to make me feel guilty" almost every day.
The last hearing screening had been done the day before.
During these months he had observed strangers commenting on their sins committed in the past.
Mr. Coleman believed that his migraines and his guilt could be due to alcohol withdrawal.
He had been drinking three or four cans of beer almost every day of the week for several years until he had stopped it four months before, after joining the church.
He continued drinking 'one or two beers' every two weeks, but then he felt guilty.
She said she had no alcohol withdrawal symptoms such as shaking and sweating.
He had smoked cannabis up to twice a month for years, but he had completely stopped it when he joined the church.
She said she had used other drugs except once, three years ago, when she took cocaine without going through anything.
She slept except a few nights, in which she only slept a few hours before her academic work could be accomplished.
Mr. Coleman said he had no depressive, manic or psychotic symptoms or ideation.
Have symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
As for stressing factors, it was exhausted from its current responsibilities, such as going to college and attending to its ecclesiastical activities almost daily.
At the beginning of the academic year he had always taken outstanding steps and now he had obtained outstanding and approved.
The patient's girlfriend and sister were interviewed separately.
They agreed that Sr. Coleman had become silent, when he had formerly been a fun and overt person.
Nor had it ever been especially Teligious before.
Her sister thought the church had 'washed her brain' to Mr. Coleman.
The girlfriend, however, had attended several services with the patient and reported that several members of the congregation had told him that, although none had ever spoken to new members who felt guilty about them before, they were very guilty.
The physical examination of the patient, including neurological examination, was normal, as well as the systematic blood, alcoholemia and urinary toxicology.
A cranial computed tomography (CT) was performed, which was also normal.
