This is a 69-year-old woman, without drug allergies or toxic habits.
His personal history included hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia.
She has had a double mechanical valve since 2003 due to mitral valvulopathy of relapsing origin and a chronic liver prosthesis of probable multifactorial origin (heart failure, stasis liver).
She was diagnosed with stage 3 chronic kidney disease (CrCl.
according to MDRD-4: 43.1 ml/min/1.73 m2).
She was admitted due to coughing episodes associated with progressive increase in dyspnea on exertion for one week.
Initially she was assessed by her primary care physician, and she was on a cycle of antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin.
The clinical worsening of the respiratory condition and the appearance of fever of 39oC with tiritona, consultation in the emergency department of our hospital.
The patient reported no increase in abdominal▁perimeter or increase in lower limb edema.
No voiding syndrome.
No abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting, she only reported softer stools than usual, non-diarrhoic, which was related to antibiotic treatment.
No other signs or symptoms in the anamnesis by devices.
Vital signs were: TA: 110/60 mmHg.
85 bpm.
20▁rpm.
O2 saturation 96% room air.
Febrile (axillary tube 38.2oC).
Upon inspection, the general condition was conserved, conscious and oriented.
Well hydrated and infused.
Eupneic at rest.
Do not jugular engorgement.
Absence of palpable lymph nodes.
On cardiorespiratory auscultation, the heart sounds were rhythmic with metallic click and pansystolic murmur III/VI.
Gallbladder mucus preserved with vesicular hoarseness and minimal crepitants biphasic.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible and pointed out a 4 cms non-painful hepatomegaly with normal peristalsis.
The lower limbs showed mild edema of the malleolus.
The laboratory tests performed in the emergency room showed normal levels within normal limits and mild anemia with normocytic normochromic profile with hemoglobin (Hb) of 10.8 g/dl, without leukocytosis and platelets.
The coagulation study was normal.
The basic biochemistry showed deterioration of the renal function (Cr 1.85 mg/dl, urea 128 mg/dl) with normal features.
Lipid, hepatic and thyroid abnormalities were normal.
Acute phase reactants were slightly elevated with 24 mm/h ESR and 2 mg/l CRP.
The proteinogram showed hypoproteinemia, hypoalbuminemia and profile compatible with moderate inflammatory syndrome.
Infectious serology (HBV, HCV and HIV) was negative.
The electrocardiogram showed no relevant changes.
Chest X-ray showed marked global cardiomegaly with pulmonary parenchyma without significant findings.
Salmonella serogroup B was isolated in a tanda of two hemocultives in the emergency department.
Urocultiva and coprocultive were negative.
These findings, and since the patient did not have a previous abdominal condition, a study was initiated to find a responsible source of bacteremia.
Among the initial studies, an abdominal ultrasound was performed that ruled out significant alterations.
Given the persistence of fever, since this was a patient with a history of mytroaortic valve disease, a transthoracic echocardiography was requested and subsequently a transesophageal echocardiogram was performed, which showed no prosthetic endocarditis compatible with endocarditis.
A CT angiography of the chest and abdomen showed mild calcified atheromatosis of the thoracic and abdominal aorta, with no evidence of aneurysms or data suggestive of endovascular infection.
On the basis of the antibiogram, empirical antibiotic treatment instituted in the emergency room (ceftriaxone 2 g iv/24 hours) was ruled out with ciprofloxacin 500 mg every 12 h orally and completed the antibiotic treatment with good clinical evolution.
Due to the absence of imaging findings, the patient was discharged home.
Two weeks later, the patient developed dorsal pain radiating to the centrothoracic region of oppressive nature, which progressively increased, accompanied by increased dyspnea, which led to the emergency department visit.
He had not presented fever or other accompanying symptoms.
The electrocardiogram showed no data of acute ischemia.
The analysis performed in the emergency room highlighted the mobilization of markers of damage with ultrasensitive troponin peak 638 pg/dl, normal creatine phosphokinase (CPK) and admission of the tumor to the myocardium negative study.
Differential diagnosis This is a patient with recent admission due to Salmonella sp bacteremia without objectifying clear focus in the study, who was readmitted for chest pain and dyspnea.
It is known that Salmonella bacteremia can occur in the context of gastroenteritis or manifest as fever without apparent source.
Percutaneous seizure may cause focal complications such as osteoarticular infections, CNS involvement, endocarditis, and endovascular infection.
In our case, there was no persistent bacteremia, since the control blood cultures were negative before discharge and upon readmission.
In this patient, the first thing to rule out, despite the normal electrocardiogram, is an acute coronary syndrome.
In favor of this, it shows cardiovascular risk factors, compatible clinical signs and mobilization of myocardial damage markers, so this entity cannot be ruled out until a coronary angiography is performed.
Other causes of ischemic pain not associated with coronary artery disease should also be considered: coronary embolism, coronary spasms, coronary arteritis (luetic or associated with other systemic diseases) and congenital abnormalities of the other coronary arteries.
There are other cardiovascular diseases that can cause chest pain.
In pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE), pain is usually pleuritic and may be associated with hemoptysis, tachypnea, tachycardia, hypoxemia and hypocapnia that our patient did not present.
In addition, the patient had a negative diagnosis of dementia treated in the emergency department and had no other risk factors for developing dementia.
Aortic dissection is another entity to consider in the differential diagnosis.
In this case, chest pain is usually very severe from the beginning, irradiating to the back and appearing abruptly.
It may be associated with pulse deficit, aortic insufficiency and acute myocardial infarction, among others.
We emphasize the age of our patient and hypertension (which is present in up to 80% of cases) and against the clinical presentation.
Finally, the possibility of complications or focal infections secondary to Salmonella sp. bacteraemia should be considered.
In this sense, we can point out on the one hand osteoarticular infections such as infectious spondylodiscitis.
It usually presents as back pain or lumbar inflammatory profile and in some cases, chest pain may be the form of presentation.
The symptoms are usually very nonspecific, leading to a delay in diagnosis.
In our case, we could not rule out this possibility until an imaging test was performed.
On the other hand, endovascular infections should be noted, since Salmonella bacteremia has classically been associated with endovascular colonization and may be present in up to 10% of patients with bacteremia.
In our case, since this is a patient with a mechanical prosthesis due to mytroaortic valve disease and who has presented a recent bacteremia due to Salmonella, endovascular infection would be our main clinical suspicion if the coronary angiography ruled out the previous admission.
Emergency Department due to Salmonella was discharged with no fever and antibiotic treatment with ceftriaxone 2 gr IV was initiated, which was maintained in the ward due to the short duration of antibiotic treatment for bacteremia.
Initially, the possibility of osteoarticular infection in relation to recent bacteremia was raised.
In this sense, a back-lumbar CT scan was performed, which did not reveal spondylodis or presence of hypersensitivity.
On the ward, new blood cultures were requested without fever, which were also negative.
Given the clinical picture of chest pain and the mobilization of markers of myocardial damage, a coronary angiography was performed that showed a severe lesion along the entire proximal segment of the right coronary artery, which impressed as secondary to compression.
The angiography showed a giant pseudoaneurysm at the level of the right coronary sinus that was responsible for compression of the right coronary artery, as well as severe aortic insufficiency due to periprosthetic dysfunction.
Echocardiography showed findings consistent with aortic prosthetic endocarditis, severe aortic regurgitation and a large pseudoaneurysm in the anterior region of the proximal ascending aorta.
In our patient, the initial process was probably the prosthetic aortic arch because the metallic prosthesis was well positioned with adequate opening, with perithoracic abscess and subsequent formation of extension or fistneurism.
To complete the study and assess the extension, a chest CT angiography was requested, which confirmed the presence of a large pseudoaneurysm dependent on aortic root (5.4 x 5.8 x 5.9 cms) between the ascending crane artery and the pulmonary trunk.
These findings were contacted with the cardiovascular surgery service of our reference hospital to assess the case after the intervention, given the high surgical risk of the patient.
Subsequently, the patient progressed unfavourably, maintaining a situation of heart failure refractory to treatment and finally died.
Final diagnosis Salmonella serogroup B bacteremia complicated with giant pseudoaneurysm of the aortic root that causes compression of the right coronary artery probably related to Salmonella endarteritis.
Periaortic abscess and severe aortic regurgitation.
