It was received in the infectious diseases consultation of the University Hospital of Maracaibo, Edo.
Zulia.
Venezuela, to a 10-year-old male school, born and raised in Santa Cruz de Mara, suburban area of the state.
The same is true of wheelchairs due to cerebral palsy without mental retardation, who, according to the mother, after 15 days of receiving▁inpatient treatment after surgery, presented colic with a strong intensity ulcer with disappearance of the abdomen,
This larvae were observed in the sanitary water when the patient defecated.
The larvae were taken to the Parasitology Laboratory of the School of Bioanalysis of the University of Zulia and, based on their morphological characteristics, were identified as larva of Eristalis tenaxDiidae (Linnaeusr).
Parasitological examination of feces was ordered, where vaccinate forms of Blastocystis hominis were observed (treatment was not recommended).
A year later, the patient returned to the clinic for severe abdominal cramps accompanied by bladder incontinence and increased appetite for 5 days, accompanied by headaches and pasty or diarrheic stools with mucus in a new number.
Larva is once again identified as Eristalis tenax, but in addition to the coprofore mentioned examination, coprocultive request is made, and Mebendazole 5cc bid is indicated for 3 days.
The stool examination did not report evolutionary forms of enteroparasites and the coprocultive indicated: Salmonella serologic group E, for which antimicrobial treatment was administered.
It was decided to extend the epidemiological survey initially carried out to the patient and for this reason it was asked about the house and the characteristics of its surroundings.
From the beginning the mother always expressed the difficulty that the child could have▁ingested the eggs or larvae of the fly, because strict control is maintained on the preparation of the child's food, precisely because of the motor difficulties.
In relation to water, he said that they used to consume it after being wounded.
During the survey, the child's mother manifested closeness to a water tank serving this bathroom and the presence of some 'avispitals' ploughing in the bathroom.
It was decided to open the tank (whose cap was broken) and a large number of adults, larvae and pupae of Eristalis tenax were collected from the site.
