A 33-year-old woman diagnosed in February 2015 with acute▁lymphoblastic leukemia BII Ph negative due to febrile syndrome and purpuric lesions in the lower limbs.
Laboratory tests showed 21000 leukocytes (35% blasts with▁lymphoid appearance), hemoglobin 11.9 g/dL and 22000 platelets.
The patient received chemotherapy with prephase, induction, and early and late consolidation.
Despite this, she had an early molecular relapse and subsequent morphological relapse, so rescue treatment was performed to induce complete remission in the face of an allogeneic HSCT.
During the neutropenia period, the patient received antibiotic, antifungal and antiviral prophylaxis with levoctin 500 mg/day vo, ceftriaxone 1g/24h ev, fluconazole 400 mg/day vo, pen
Twenty days after the rescue treatment, the patient developed fever without apparent source.
Pancytopenia with 200 leukocytes (100 neutrophils), hemoglobin 10.7 g/dl and 25000 platelets were evidenced in the laboratory.
CRP 2.97 mg/dL, creatinine 0.52 mg/dL, ASAT/ALAT 15/26 U/L, GGT/FA 121/145 U/L, total bilirubin 0.6 mg/dL, potassium 141 mEq/L
With the diagnostic orientation of febrile neutropenia, cultures were taken and meropenem and vancomycin were initiated.
On the fifth day of fever, the patient developed respiratory symptoms and an HRCT scan showed alveolar condensation in the left upper lobe (LSI) with bronchial occupations and peripheral halo sign in ground glass.
Fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy showed inflammation of the ISS bronchus with partial occlusion.
Colonies of Aspergillus fumigatus were isolated from bronchial aspirate and voriconazole was started.
Mandibular detection in serum was negative.
Despite treatment, the patient persisted with febricularis, respiratory symptoms and chest pain was added.
A second fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy showed a complete decrease in the lumen of the LSI, the area where biopsies were taken, in which hyphae compatible with mucus were finally observed.
A gene detection was performed that was positive for Rhizopus arrizus.
Liposomal amphotericin and posaconazole were initiated.
