Anamnesis A 23-year-old male with a history of left radical orchiectomy 7 months ago for a testicular tumor with pathological anatomy of combined germ cell tumor (60% endodermal sinus tumor, 20% embryonal carcinoma).
Residual retroperitoneal mass after chemotherapy with negative tumor markers.
The excision of a laparoscopic left paraaortic mass one month ago was unremarkable (pathological anatomy without evidence of malignancy).
She came to the emergency department with progressive abdominal distention associated with diffuse abdominal pain and vomiting for three weeks.
Orthopnea that is becoming stronger and compels you to sleep with two pillows.
No fever or other symptoms.
Afebrile, tender abdomen and▁tympanic membrane tenderness diffusely painful upon palpation.
Hydroaerial noises present
▁Complementary tests ● Urgent blood analysis: creatinine 0.8 mg/dl, C-reactive protein 0.5 mg/dl, leukocytes 6.10 x 1,000/l, hemoglobin 14 g/dl.
● Urgent abdominal-pelvic computed tomography (CT): abundant ascites in all spaces.
No peritoneal uptake or signs of peritoneal dissemination.
Postoperative changes in the left retroperitoneal region.
Moderate amount of bilateral pleural effusion with compressive atelectasis of the adjacent parenchyma.
● Diagnostic paracentesis: A sample of a liquid looks like and has been sent to Microbiology (identical colitis), cytology (negative for malignancy), and triglyceride count (1525 mg/dl).
Diagnosis Chylous ascites as a complication after performing a laparoscopic retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy.
Treatment With the diagnosis of chylous ascites, a drainage catheter was placed percutaneously and CT-guided, evacuating 4000 cc of ascitic fluid in the first 24 hours, with symptomatic improvement of the abdominal▁perimeter).
Conservative management was performed, leaving the patient on an absolute diet and progressing to a lipid-restricted diet for the following 3 weeks, maintaining drainage output at zero during this time.
After the reintroduction of fats into the diet, at admission, it began to increase drainage output, at a rate around 8:00 cc daily and restricted to 500 cc daily, initiated treatment at week 2 μc daily.
Performing drainage catheterisation with octreotide persisted at a rate close to 150 cc daily despite dietary restrictions.
The patient required admission due to a febrile episode secondary to bacterial colonization of the ascitic fluid (Pseudo aeruginosa), with good resolution after undergoing broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy (piperacil).
Due to persistent flow 3 months after the onset of the clinical picture, total parenteral nutrition was initiated for 2 weeks, with disappearance of the▁lymphorrhea.
After confirming the absence of recurrence after progressive reintroduction of feeding, drainage was removed, with no new ascitic episode in subsequent imaging controls.
