Anamnesis A 45-year-old woman who has had episodes of severe headache since she was 7 years old, which is usually hemicraneal, without aura, with nausea and vomiting, with photo and sonophobia, which can be prolonged for 24 hours.
Surgical history: multinodular goiter thymectomy.
Usual treatment with levothyroxine 75 mg, tomato 50 mg and zolmitriptan 5 mg if migraine attack.
The patient came to the hospital because in the last week she had headache different from usual, with right retroocular pain and holocraneal headache "hull" and associated with right cervical contracture after a few days.
Physical strain Afebril, blood pressure 110 mmHg
Good general condition, normal language
No meningeal signs.
PICNR, normal cranial nerves, normoreactive isochoric pupils, normal ocular motility, normal confrontation visual fields.
Normal eye fund.
Normal strength, sensitivity and coordination
Location of osteotendinous present.
bilateral indifferent cutaneous-plantar.
Cardiac arrest, cardiac arrest, absence of carotid murmurs.
Rest of the anodyne exploration.
Additional tests • General analysis with normal blood count, biochemistry and coagulation, thyroid hormones, vitamin B12 and folic acid.
Blood serology for HIV, syphilis, and Lyme disease was negative.
Normal hypercoagulability and autoimmunity study.
• ECG: sinus rhythm with no significant changes.
• Chest X-ray: normal.
• Doppler ultrasound of supraaortic trunks: mean▁intima thickness of 0.7 mm within normal limits without atheroma plaques.
Wave flattening in the right internal carotid artery (ICA) of very low speed to assess stenosis or distal occlusion.
Flow in the left internal carotid artery was normal.
Visible bilateral vertebral arteries with▁anterograde flow.
• MRI and cranial angio-MRI: no structural changes or pathological signs at the supra or infratentorial cerebral parenchyma.
Absence of flow in the right supracondylar internal carotid artery, as well as in the ipsilateral A1 and M1 segments with present distal flows, functioning both posterior▁communicants.
• CT angiography of the supraaortic and intracranial trunks: total obstruction of the right ICA in its intracranial segment, with distal▁sealing from the collateral circulation of the polygon.
The rest of the cervical proximal course of the right ICA is normal in morphology and caliber.
The remaining supraaortic trunks have normal morphology and caliber.
There were no changes in the rest of the intracranial arteries.
• Cerebral arteriography: origin of the left common carotid artery in the right trunk as anatomical variant without pathological significance.
The collateral circulation is correctly located in a segment of about 2 cm of the right internal carotid artery although the filling is irregular; the lesion has a discrete aspect and ectasia of the pre-stenotic portion could be treated by dissection.
Left internal carotid artery showed no lesions.
Permeable anterior communicating.
Vertebrobasilar sector without injury.
Cerebral angiography: critical stenosis of the right internal carotid artery intraosseous; the lesion has an irregular appearance and ectasia of the pre-stenotic portion suggestive of dissection.
Diagnosis Cephalea secondary to intracranial carotid dissection.
Treatment The patient was treated with▁acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg/day, a treatment that remains on the basis of atorvastatin 40 mg/day.
During her admission she required treatment with NSAI until headache subsided.
At discharge, treatment with amitriptyline 25 mg daily and zolmitriptan 5 mg if migraine attacks were indicated, along with ibuprofen and punctual tetrazepam in the presence of cervical muscle pain.
a The patient developed headache with tension-type headache that resolved with NSAI; after 3 days, pulsatile tinnitus migraine appeared and began similar again.
The patient was reevaluated one month and three months after admission.
The patient continues to have migraine crises without retroocular pain or tinnitus, at least once a week for up to 2-3 days, in addition to episodes of high blood pressure in the context of tomitripol and is therefore discontinued.
At 3 months follow-up MR angiography, mild irregularity of the right ICA wall and mild stenosis were observed in the recessed recessive axis, without observing the absence of flow or obstruction in the previous study.
No dissection was observed.
Rest of intracranial arteries and supraaortic trunks of normal morphology and caliber, without significant stenosis.
MR angiography at admission and at 3 months showed no significant residual stenosis.
