Anamnesis We report the case of a 40-year-old man who consulted in the Urology outpatient clinic for pain in the left renal fossa.
Smoker, with no other history of interest, the patient complained of colic pain without fever, of several weeks of evolution.
It is not accompanied by▁frank hematuria or urinary symptoms.
Physical examination revealed anodyne, only highlighting pain due to bimanual palpation in the left renal fossa.
No abdominal masses were observed.
▁Complementary tests • Blood analysis: renal function and blood count are normal.
• Urine and sediment: urinary pH is 6 and urine sediment shows leukocyturia and microhematuria without bacteriuria.
• Echography: ectasis of the left renal localized foot and possible lithiasic image in the ipsilateral renal pelvis.
• Intravenous urography: dilated common foot with altered morphology of the cavities and lithiasis in the lower pole of the left kidney.
Ipsilateral ureter dilated to the distal third, where there is a sharp contrast passage to the bladder, in relation to a stenotic process.
a Diagnosis of chronic upper urinary tract tumor associated with chronic inflammation was made by computed tomography with contrast urinary time (UR-TC), where left retroperitoneal tumor with distal urinary bladder emptying was observed.
Given all the imaging test data, the patient underwent examination of the bladder under pathological anaesthesia, except for a protruding mass at the level of the left ureteral orifice which was▁resected.
The biopsy result was a diagnosis of chronic inflammatory process.
Persistence of diagnostic doubt was achieved by performing a▁retrograde pyelography and colonoscopy with biopsies of the left urinary tract. A selective urine sample was also obtained for cytology and cytology.
The pathological study showed the presence of inflammatory reaction with formation of epithelioid granulomas without findings of neoformative process.
Inflammatory cells were visualized in the urine cytology and the urinoctive was positive for urinary infection, finding Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, confirming the diagnosis of chronic inflammatory process in relation to tuberculous disease pyeloureteric acid.
Treatment After the definitive diagnosis was reached, treatment with anti-tuberculosis drugs (complete isoniazid regimen, rifampicin, pyracinamide, and etambu bag at 6 months) was started.
In addition, a ureteral JJ catheter was placed, which was removed after completion of anti-infectious medical treatment.
The patient is currently asymptomatic, without JJ catheter, and in the control imaging tests 9 months after the end of the tuberculous treatment, an important resolution of left obstructive uropathy is observed.
