Anamnesis A 43-year-old man with no medical or surgical history came from his emergency department complaining of a clustered sores on the body of the penis, 5 days of painful treatment suggestive of genital herpes
He did not report other associated skin lesions.
The patient had multiple sexual risk relationships with other men (MSM) without protection in the last months.
Physical erythematous, painful, ulcerated, edged, slightly exudative, located on the body of the penis, mildly attached to the tapering process.
Bilateral inguinal lymphadenopathy was present in the inguinal region.
▁Complementary tests were requested to confirm the suspicion of infection, possibly a sexually transmitted infection (STI).
In the microbiological culture of the urethral▁exudate there was no bacterial growth and no microbiota was observed outside the usual.
The PCR of the ulcer background▁exudate was negative for herpes virus type 1 (HSV-1) and 2 (HSV2).
In the requested STI serologies, the negativity for anti treponliema antibodies (RPR), total treponema antibody absorption test IgM treponema type (FTA-ABS), antituberculosis drugs stood out.
Serology of hepatitis C virus (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were also negative, highlighting only positivity for anti-HBc antibodies, anti-HBe and HBsAg negative antigen.
Due to the findings obtained in the complementary tests and with a high clinical suspicion of STI, a positive Treponema Skindum DNA PCR of the ulcer▁exudate was requested.
Two weeks after the first visit, new serologies were requested, with total anti treponema antibody negative anti treponema and anti-serponema serologies as well as IgM positive serology, maintaining RPR
Diagnosis Primary syphilis.
Treatment of anti-treponemal antibody positivity in the PCR of the sample taken, and prior to positivity in serology of single dose (one IgM type), treatment with intramuscular benzathine penicillin was established.
The administration of intramuscular penicillin within a few days began to improve ulcerated lesions of the penis, leaving a small scar in the balanopreputial groove.
