On January 24, 2018, a 50 year old female patient, Argentinean, with residence in El Tunal, department of Metan, province of Salta, entered the Sanitary Institution of Metan due to fever 5 days.
The next day, Dr. Joaquín Castellanos was referred to General Güemes for evaluation by the surgery medical service.
At the time of admission, samples were taken for culture of the most common pathogens.
At 48h the patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit with presumptive diagnosis of sepsis with abdominal focus, urinary tract infection and acute pancreatitis.
Empirical treatment with ciprofloxacin, oxygen sodium heparin, ketorolac was applied.
On the evening examination, the patient was lucid, but with hypoventilation.
A chest X-ray showed a left basal infiltrate, and a computerized axial tomography showed free lung bases, liver, free spleen, pancreas, adrenal glands and preserved kidneys, with no peritoneal lymphadenopathy distended, intestinal fluid.
The clinical picture worsened rapidly with manifestation of tachypnea, hypotension requiring vasopressors, acrocia in upper limbs and lice-like lesions in lower limbs.
The patient required mechanical ventilation, antibiotic treatment with ciprofloxacin was discontinued and replaced with ampicillin-sulphate and vancomycin.
A complete interview was completed by the family members who reported having had a tick removed from the left lumbar region 3 days prior to the onset of symptoms.
Given the previous history, serum samples were collected and diagnostic tests for dengue (RT-PCR, non-structural antigen -NS1–, IgM Mac ELISA), chikungunya (PCR) indirect Macfluormunescence) were requested.
Determination of specific IgG and IgM for cryptosia spp.
it was performed by the commercial Indirect Immunofluorescence (Focus Diagnostics) equipment according to the manufacturer's instructions.
The detection of IgM≥1:64 and IgG≥1:256 titers was considered recent infection.
In addition, skin biopsies were taken from purpura rash and region of the lower left limb for detection of mental retardation spp.
PCR.
Tissue samples were fixed with DNey Blood & Tissue QIAGEN commercial equipment according to manufacturer's instructions.
Partial amplification of the following genes was performed: gltA, ompA, ompB, htrD and the 23S-5S rRNA intergenic marker according to the protocol described8.
Amplification products obtained from RNAr 23S-5S, ompA and ompB genes were analyzed with the BigBI sequence Genetic Sequenter A Sequencing kit (3.177 Anaedzer, BioPE) analyzed.
The sequences obtained were compared with those deposited in the GenBank (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank/) with the BLASTN (BLASTN Information Center for NCCD).
Samples for diagnosis of cryptosiosis were taken from the Special Bacteriology Department, INEI-ANLIS «Carlos G. Malbrán», CABA and the rest from the Milagro Viejo Hospital, Salta.
Preventively, the patient was covered with a 200mg / 12h clotting catheter.
Results: dengue-negative; chikungunya-negative; hantavirus-negative; rickettsiosis-IgG nonreactive (<1/64); IgM non-reactive (<1/64).
After 72h of hospitalization, the patient suffered a cardiorespiratory arrest and died.
Serial and urocultive hemocultives were negative after 6 days of insanction.
Twenty days after the onset of symptoms, the confirmatory diagnosis was obtained by amplification and partial sequencing of the ompB and ompA genes.
The sequences obtained showed a 99% identity with strains available in GenBank of R. rickettsii, 011, ompB and ompA genes, access numbers: CP018914.1, CP01891 respectively.
