A 39-year-old male patient was admitted for 15 days of evolution characterized by progressive loss of strength in the right hemibody, accompanied by dysarthria, holocraneal headache and chilled fever (38.5 to analgesics).
No abnormal signs were found in the semiological examination of the skin or airways.
She was taking intravenous drugs of abuse.
He had been diagnosed with AIDS for one year prior to the current disease.
She received antiretroviral therapy and prophylaxis for cystis jirovecii with standard doses of methotrexate/SMX.
He had had mucocutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma, autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura and recurrent oropharyngeal candidiasis.
The CD4 + T lymphocyte count was 114 cells/μL and the plasma viral load was < 50 copies/mL.
Two hemocultive samples were negative. Chest X-ray and computed tomography did not demonstrate the presence of pleuroparenchymal lesions.
A computed tomography of the brain, without and with contrast, showed the existence of two lobulated fronto-parietal lesions located in the left and right hemispheres, respectively, with a discrete ring-shaped contrast-enhanced mass.
Brain CT, sagittal and coronal sections, showing a bilobulated frontoparietal lesion located in the right hemisphere, with contrast enhancement in the periphery, in the ring and discrete mass line structures.
CT scan of the brain showed lobulated frontoparietal lesions located in the left and right hemispheres, respectively, with ring-shaped contrast enhancement in the periphery.
With the presumptive diagnosis of cerebral toxoplasmosis began empirical treatment with pyrimerosine, leucovorin in usual doses.
The clinical course was unfavourable with neurological deficit motor and the addition of simple partial seizures in the right hemibody.
In addition, the worsening of brain lesions was verified in the neuroimaging controls.
For these reasons it was decided to perform a surgical exploration of these for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
During neurosurgery, two abscesses of 3 x 1 cm and 8 x 0.6 cm located in the left and right fronto-parietal regions were found, respectively.
Drainage and removal of the capsule of both lesions were performed.
Direct examination of the biopsy material showed numerous leukocytes and, with the staining of surgical acid branched K, resistant-acid filances were observed.
Direct surgical removal of the biopsy material showing numerous leukocytes and branched K-in staining revealed acid-resistant filacies.
Cultures performed in Columbia base agar with 5% sheep blood and chocolate agar developed dry colonies, with white odor, white, adhered to the environment, which did not show prolonged cold agar, and other bacteria did not show prolonged development.
Sewing on the identification scheme of aerobic actinomidates of clinical importance proposed by Brown and McNeil, the isolated microorganism was identified as non-phase fungal.
▁Phenotypic characterization was confirmed by amplification of the 16S rRNA coding DNA by PCR.
The PCR product of the 16S rRNA gene was obtained with Ta q DNAase (Promega) using the primers described by Weisburg.
The sequencing of the amplified product was performed on both DNA chains using an ABIPrism 3100 BioAnalyzer device at the University of Utah.
Sequences fixed were analyzed with Blast V2.0 software.
The isolation sequence analysis revealed 99 % identity with No pharyngecological (Nú de access GO853065-1).
Antibiotic sensitivity was determined by the epsilometric method.
Cut-off points, expressed as ug/mL, were those recommended by NCCLS: amoxicillin-resistant primtria resistant ≥ 8 sensitive rifacin ≤ 8 intermediate ug/mL; amoxicillin-clavulanic acid sensitive ≤ 8 / 4 sensitive; intermediate 16/16
Active antibiotics (MIC in μg/mL) were: TMP-SMX ( 0.064), ciprofloxacin (0.032), amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (0.50) and amikacin (0.125).
The microorganism was resistant to ceftriaxone (> 32) and clarithromycin (> 32). The patient was treated with TMP/SMX, at a dose of 15 mg/kg intravenously of the TMP component, divided into four weeks.
With this therapy the clinical manifestations disappeared and a significant improvement was achieved in the neurological signs and cerebral acquired images.
The patient was discharged and continued on antiretroviral therapy plus 2 TMS/SMX tablets 160/800 mg twice daily until completing one year of treatment.
