Setting: We present a clinical case about the ambulatory management of a patient with heart failure, in which the specialists in Family and Community Medicine participate, avoiding institutionalized patient admission.
Cardiac failure, dyspnoea at rest.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Anamnesis: 76-year-old male.
Family history was uninterested.
No known drug allergies.
Ex-smoker with onset in youth and up to 13 years ago, 10 cigarettes per day (ICAT 23 packs/year).
Dyspnea grade III/IV mMRC (not assessed by▁Pneumology).
Hypertension and type 2 DM in treatment with oral antidiabetic agents with target organ involvement (retinopathy and stage 3 renal failure in follow-up by Nephrology, last review in August 2019).
Anaemia of chronic disorder.
Past infection of Hepatitis B Virus (Ac anticore and antiHBs positive).
Depressive syndrome.
The patient comes in the last month with greater demand, due to worsening of his depressive condition, with intense asthenia, which the patient attributes to his depression.
However, in one consultation, the patient complained of dyspnea on mild exertion, with a clear worsening of his baseline dyspnea, in addition to edema with fovea in both lower limbs from the third distal to the middle and orthopnea of 3 pounds.
Physical condition: good general condition, tachypnea at rest, well hydrated and perfused.
Acquired.
Auscultation: rhythmic cardiac tones with systolic murmurs in aortic focus III/IV.
Good vesicular murmur with thick base crackles to Abdomen: blando and depressible, non-masses, non-thirds, non-painful, medium-sized hypersensitivity, no signs of pharyngitis
Neurologic: oriented in the three preserved superior functions.
Non-neurological focality▁Complementary tests: TA: 145/90 HR: 104 bpm.
Saturation O2: 98% A/A ECG: sinus rhythm at 72 bpm, left axis, PR without alterations, narrow QRS with data of left ventricular hypertrophy.
No acute ischemic changes X-ray: well-inspired, with cardiothoracic index within the upper limits, without increased density, with clamping of costophrenic sinuses and bilateral pleural effusion preserved cardiothoracic index with signs of density.
Family and community approach 73-year-old patient, independent for basic activities of daily living, manages money and medication, preserved upper functions and Barthel 75 points, with good family support.
High socioeconomic level.
Plan of action and evolution After the evaluation of the exploration, it was decided to perform an urgent chest X-ray and an urgent laboratory test for the next morning, once the patient is visualized in pleural effusion, and the results of the laboratory test were increased to pro-e
After these three days, the patient went to the clinic again, with a clear decrease in edema in both lower limbs.
Urgent control x-ray was prescribed.
The X-ray shows great clinical improvement of the patient, without visualizing pleural effusion, as well as dyspnea presented by the patient.
After reassessing the patient, a▁stepwise reduction of furosemide dose is performed, explaining to the patient the need for adequate treatment adherence, as well as correct treatment adherence and dissatisfaction with daily treatment.
After 10 days of non-plective therapy, the patient was again mentioned, and complete resolution of the clinical picture was observed, with complete disappearance of edema in the lower limbs, as well as good pulmonary auscultation and no visualization of pleural effusion.
Months later, the patient has good control of his chronic diseases in consultation.
