We report the case of a 16-year-old male patient who attended the consultation due to pubic and growth retardation.
ANTECE AFMILIARES Padre et sibling with normal height and puberty.
Maternal grandfather died of glioblastoma.
The mother consulted for gynecologic diseases in 2004 due to menstrual disorders.
Pathology was ruled out and she was discharged.
In 2007, with a clinical picture of headache, a MRI showed a 1cm pituitary macroadenoma, which was non-functioning, subsequently showing asymptomatic headache and normal pituitary axis, so an expectant attitude was decided.
BACKGROUND The family reports that the patient had headache, nausea and vomiting since seven years of age.
Her pregnancy and delivery were normal (birth weight: 3,150 kg, height: 50 cm) At examination, weight 51.7 kg, height 154 cm (<p5).
2cc pouch, pubarche 3, axillary 1.
Analytical COMPLEMENTARY PRUEBAS: normal blood count and biochemistry, TSH 0.31μUI/mL, FT4 11.7 pml/L, FSH 3.04 mIU/mL, cortisol
Prolactin 8649 ng/mL stands out exercise test and clonidine test without GH response.
Bone age: 12 years.
EVOLUTION In view of the results, a sustitutive treatment of the thyrotropium and corticotropium axes was initiated and a pituitary MRI with gadolinium-enhanced ground with erosion was requested 47.622
Treatment was started with progressively increasing doses of cabergoline, up to a maximum weekly dose of 1.5mg.
After a few months there was no biochemical response, persisting elevated prolactin, so surgical treatment was finally decided.
The pathology revealed that it was a prolactinoma.
The in vitro functional analysis showed that although a decrease in prolactin production and expression of DRD2 receptors could be observed with exposure of the specimen to cabergoline, the inhibition was not complete and the tumor was not completely inhibited.
This would explain the resistance to in vivo proven treatment.
Four months after surgery, a mass 30x20x30 mm continued to be observed in the MRI, showing evidence of hydrofolate and hyperpituitary-hyperprolactinemia (PRL 178.9 ng/ml).
Cabergoline was maintained at maximum dose in the fixed doses (3.5 mg weekly) and the possibility of radiotherapy was proposed, with the patient waiting to receive it at the present time.
Simultaneously, the patient's mother was followed up in our service for the previously diagnosed pituitary macroadenoma.
During this time, the mass maintained the same volume, without invasion of surrounding structures and with a pituitary axis unchanged.
With the diagnosis of prolactinoma of the child, and therefore the presence of pituitary adenomas in two relatives not associated with any other endocrine alteration, a genetic study was requested that showed an ex-brother AIP274 gene mutation in our son.
The rest of the family was negative for this mutation.
EVOLUTION During follow-up, non-functioning pituitary macroadenoma of the mother maintained the same volume and the pituitary axis was normal.
Two years ago, in a routine analysis of the mother, hypercalcemia appeared, confirming finally hyperparathyroidism and an image suggestive of right inferior parathyroid adenoma in the MIBI scintigraphy.
A right inferior parathyroidectomy was performed and the pathological anatomy of parathyroid gland adenoma was confirmed.
After surgery, intact PTH was measured in high range, with upper limit.
After these findings, considering the possibility of multiple endocrine neoplasia, a genetic study of MEN7,8 was requested, which was initially rejected by the genetics service.
In any case, abdominal CT and gastrointestinal and pancreatic hormones were requested.
The results were normal in both children, except for the finding of normocalcemic hyperparathyroidism in both.
In the mother, determinations were normal except for a glucagon of 267 pg/mL (VN 59-150) and a pancreatic polypeptide >200 pmol/L (VN <100) and pancreatic LOES 2681 mm.
We took advantage of an ongoing study to provide PET images with 68Ga DOTA-NOC.
No other images of suspicion appeared.
115782 isolates were re-exposed for MEN-1 gene by MLPA (multiple region dependent probe amplification), which revealed a profile compatible with a deletion in chromosome 1118
This result is compatible with the clinical suspicion of endocrine neoplasia.
The study was positive for both the mother and the two brothers.
With the diagnosis of pancreatic nonfunctioning pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, the mother was operated on by means of pancreatectomy corporeal defect (BAD) or pancreatectomy.
Histopathology showed a multifocal well-differentiated G1 NET (two tumors, one at body level of 7.2 cm and another at tail level of 4.2 cm) with mitotic index fields <2 672% and Kitosis per 10 cm.
With the presence of vascular invasion limited to the pancreas, but without extrapancreatic tissue and tumor-free resection margins, it was classified as pT2 N0 M0.
Weeks after the intervention, she presented a late complication with obstruction by adhesions that required surgical reintervention.
Extension studies detected axillary lymphadenopathy suspect, which was biopsied and confirmed the presence of ductal carcinoma pT2 N1a M0.
This association is also described in the literature.9 Tumorectomy and biopsy of the centineal ganglion were performed, with no signs of extension.
Currently under treatment with chemotherapy+RT, under follow-up by On Medical Path and Radioterápic, with good evolution.
PRESENT SITUATION The situation of the three relatives at the time of the publication of this case is: - Case patient.
Prominent tumor, giant intervened and relapsed, pending radiotherapy.
Primary hyperparathyroidism with normocalcemia and expectant management.
- Madre.
Primary hyperparathyroidism was treated under surveillance.
She was operated on for neuroendocrine tumor with an episode of obstruction by flanges in 2017.
The patient was treated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy for breast carcinoma, with good evolution.
- Lower twin.
Pituitary microadenoma was not functioning under surveillance.
Primary hyperparathyroidism with normocalcemia and expectant management.
