PRESENTATION, PRESENTATION AND HOLDING 53-year-old male.
No known drug allergies.
A family history of Madre suddenly dies at age 72.
Maternal uncle died in the operating room during anesthetic induction.
Cardiovascular risk factors Smoking of about 30 pack-years Not drinking Non-HTN, DM nor DL No cardiological history: reactive depression known treatment consults and other syncope patient 53 years old.
Primer syncope 18 months ago, when he consulted in this center, but requested voluntary discharge before the etiology was studied.
Removal was achieved 6 times more frequently, with prodromal and seizures-rapid recovery.
One of them at rest.
Physical location COC.
Afebril.
A: 100/60.
HR: 55 bpm.
BEG.
NHNC.
Normal BW.
Patent arterial bisferiens
Cardiac arrest: CRSs with systolic murmur III/VI with preserved s2 in focus irradiated to the rest of the foci.
Decreased breath sounds until they disappear with coughing.
Cholestasis of the lung: conserved mucus
The abdomen was blushing, painless, with no masses or enlargement.
Puberculous radial artery and pedal artery were positive, bilateral and symmetrical.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES CBC, biochemistry and coagulation: unchanged.
Chest X-ray showed no cardiothoracic index, with no condensation or signs of heart failure.
ECG: sinus rhythm with LV growth and signs of overload.
Transthoracic echocardiography: moderate IA
VI with severe hypertrophy predominantly septal (23 mm), not dilated, with preserved systolic function.
Mitral MAS.
LVOT apex lock with a basal gradient of 111 mmHg.
Severe eccentric MI.
Telemetry during hospitalization showed no rhythm alterations.
EVOLUTION Patient admitted to Cardiology due to syncope under study.
On auscultation, a murmur is observed, which decreases with maneuvers that increase ventricular volume (increase of post-load obstructive symptoms), as well as ECG with criteria of left ventricular hypertrophy and bisferien arterial pulse.
This suspicion is confirmed by echocardiography, showing an atrial dilatation and obstruction to the left ventricular outflow tract.
It is monitored with telemetry from admission, without arrhythmic events.
According to the new guidelines for cardiomyopathy, the risk of sudden death at 5 years is calculated, with a result higher than 6%. Therefore, implantation of a defibrillator is recommended.
The consent for ICD implantation and blood extraction for genetic study is obtained and the family study of the index case is initiated.
DIAGNOSIS Case report obstructive cardiomyopathy index.
Secondary Syncope.
