We present a clinical case that we consider of special interest in clinical practice, due to the characteristics of the patient, the associated bad prognostic factors and the torpid evolution despite achieving good control in the treatment of HIV infection.
A 28-year-old man was diagnosed in September 2012 with HIV infection due to acute pharyngitis and cutaneous lesions with facial predominance.
The immunological status at that time was 334 CD4/mm3 (24%) and the viral load (CV) was 115,000 copies/mL.
Simultaneously, she was diagnosed with secondary syphilis, receiving penicillin treatment, but without undergoing any treatment for HIV infection and sporadically maintaining unprotected sex (men who have sex with men).
In January 2015 a progressive dyspnea on moderate exertion, coughing and occasional sputum episodes began and weight loss was observed. The patient was admitted to the internal medicine outpatient clinic in May 2015 where a study was conducted.
During admission, she recognizes the appearance of skin lesions in 2013, which have not completely eliminated.
On physical examination, multiple painful groin lesions were found dispersed in trunk, upper and lower limbs, neck, right and retropharyngeal palatal region and hard region, where they formed a▁conglomerate.
He also had other milimetric lesions in the torso, left intercostal region and back, which initially simulated a follic, but which in the thorough examination suggested metameric herpes zoster.
In the anal-perianal region, he had nonspecific superficial ulcerated lesions, predominantly in the intergluteal region.
Oropharyngeal candidiasis was observed in the mucosal examination.
With diagnosis of HIV infection stage C, without treatment, skin lesions compatible with Kaposi's sarcoma, clinical visceral involvement (pulmonary) and oropharyngeal candidiasis, additional diagnostic tests are requested.
The analytical CD4 count was 268 CD4/mm3, the CV 809,978 copies/ml, HLA B 5701 negative and the transcriptase resistance test without mutations for inhibitors or reverse transcriptase inhibitors.
Antiretroviral therapy (antiretroviral therapy) was initiated with tenofovir/emtricitabine, raltegravir and ritonavir. Antiretroviral therapy (NAC) was initiated with clarithromycin, ceftriamethoxazole and empirical antibiotic treatment for community-acquired pneumonia.
A chest X-ray and computed tomography (CT) were performed, as well as a histopathological study of skin, lung and lymph node samples, confirming the diagnosis of Kaposi's sarcoma.
All cultures were negative.
Empirical antibiotic treatment for CAP was suspended, maintaining only cotrimoxazole as secondary prophylaxis against P. jirovecii infection.
During the first days of admission, the patient worsened, requiring admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) requiring non-invasive mechanical ventilation.
Simultaneously, the first line of cancer treatment was initiated with liposomal doxorubicin, with good tolerance and initial clinical response and was maintained until completing a total of 6 cycles, obtaining as maximum radiological response stabilization of the disease.
During chemotherapy, she required hospitalization twice due to anasarca.
One month after completing treatment (October 2015), the patient presented worsening of respiratory function and an increase in the number of vesicular lesions in limbs.
The control chest CT confirmed the progression of the disease at the pulmonary level, secondary to Kaposi's sarcoma, as well as at the cutaneous level.
A second line of treatment with paclitaxel (100mg/m2 biweekly) is proposed, adjusting paclitaxel (discontinue darunavir/ritonavir and maintaining tenofovir/emtricitabine and raltegravir).
After the first two cycles, the patient started with clinical improvement.
Currently, she has received 6 cycles with good tolerance and evolution.
