Consultation Pain located in the right flank.
Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Personal history: 50-year-old woman.
No known allergies.
No toxic habits.
No hypertension, no DM, no dyslipidemia.
Primary hypothyroidism on treatment with Eutirox 50 mcg.
Allergic rhinitis in treatment with antihistamine on demand.
Anamnesis: The patient presented with continuous deaf abdominal pain in the right flank of several days of evolution, accompanied by nausea without vomiting, without fever.
Pain does not change with postures or analgesia.
It is not associated with voiding syndrome.
Your appointment in the emergency room
Location: Presents good general condition.
Aware and oriented.
Eupneic at rest.
Well hydrated and perfect.
Cardiac and pulmonary consolidation was normal.
Abdomen blando presible, painful to palpation of right upper quadrant where there is a poorly defined indurated mass without erythema or direct signs of inflammation of 3 cm in diameter.
There are no signs of peritoneal irritation.
Murphy and Blumberg signs were negative.
Lower limbs: no edemas or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
▁Complementary tests: Complete blood tests were requested with normal blood count, normal biochemistry, normal coagulation.
Besides systematic urine with negative pregnancy test.
Ultrasound-Tacdomen is requested: Highlights complex cystic in the periphery sub segment VI compatible with about 6.5 cm of rounded diameter, identified in ultrasound-guided fine-band ultrasound-guided lesion, identified with content and
A thickening of the anterior pararenal fascia and ipsilateral lateroconal fascia with fat reticulation, findings considered inflammatory-adjacent▁neighboring.
Taken together, these findings suggest a hepatic cyst, possibly hydatid, complicated by sustained rupture.
Family and Community Approach Living with your husband and your child
Natural from Italy.
He has been living in Spain for 20 years.
Middle-low socioeconomic status.
You have lived with a dog for a year vaccinated and unparased.
Clinical judgement (list of problems, referential diagnosis) Clinical judgment: Subacute abdominal pain in right hypochondrium probably related to complex hepatic cyst with contained rupture.
Differential diagnosis: Simple hepatic cyst; Hydatid cyst; Hamartoma of the bile duct; Mass disease origin of the hepatocellular carcinoma; Embryocystic liver disease - patient with cystic liver disease
The emergency situation was normal.
In abdominal ultrasound findings suggesting hepatic cyst, possibly hydatid, complicated with contained rupture.
Therefore, consultation to General Surgery is performed that rejects urgent surgical intervention so it is decided to refer the patient to Digestive Appliance for study and filiation of the cyst.
It was decided to start treatment with Albendazole 400mg/12 hours for one month and request complete blood analysis with liver biochemistry, PCR, Ca19.9, CEA and blood count normal, in addition to AFP, HIV, HBV cyst, HCV and serology positive
In January 2018, a new complete serology was requested and the result was negative for Echinococcus.
▁Throughout this time the patient has not presented pain.
So the diagnosis is simple hepatic cyst.
