Setting: We present a case of herpes zoster affecting the two branches of the facial nerve that evolves torpidly.
It is diagnosed and treated by Primary Care, Neurology, Otorhinolaryngology, Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation.
We add images of the case, after the patient's consent.
Seek medical attention Deviation of the mouth, left hypoacusis, and sensation of left hemithorax.
Anamnn: 71 year old man who comes to Primary Care for grouped vesicular lesions menis of left hemichorhosis with external condylar evolution, left hemichorhosis associated with left sidewalk (side)
Treatment with Valavir is started 1 gram every 8 hours in the emergency department.
No fever or other systemic symptoms.
In the consultation, clinical judgment of left peripheral facial paralysis by herpes zoster virus.
Among his personal history we found type 2 diabetes mellitus, obesity, psoriasis and ischemic heart disease with non-revascularized angina.
No known adverse drug reactions.
She had never had herpetic lesions before.
As usual treatment simvastatin 40 mg, nevibol 5 mg,▁acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg, metformin 850 mg, tamsulosulcg, a 100 mg amoxicillin 500 mg, beta-blockers 50 mg and cutaneous calcipin
The patient was treated with dexamethasone 30mg every 24 hours with a descending prescription, ocular▁patches, artificial prescriptions.
After the consultation, the patient decided to go to the Neurology Department of a private hospital after 3 days without significant improvement of paralysis and development of postherpetic neuralgia.
After successive consultations in a private hospital, performing non-contrast-enhanced Magnetic Resonance and neurophysiological study of the facial nerve, clinical judgment consistent with the previously established Brain Ran-Hunt Syndrome.
Location: good general condition, conscious, oriented and collaborating.
Well hydrated and infused.
Eye disorders:
Eupneic at rest.
No signs of meningismus.
Conserved cortical functions.
Consistent language.
No aphasia.
Cholesterols and normoreactive.
Eye movement preserved
No campimetric alterations by confrontation.
Deviation of the oral commissure, mild dysarthria, difficulty closing left eyelids, epiphora, decreased sensitivity in left hemisphere.
Erythematous-costal plaques extended from the midline of the labial region and meningeal conduit to the left external auditory canal.
Additional tests ** Cerebral non-contrast MRI: signs of brain aging with cortico-subcortical and images compatible with small ischemic leukoencephalopathy, possibly secondary to vessel stenosis.
** Neurophysiological study of facial nerve: study compatible with advanced left facial nerve neuropathy with loss of axonal volume and signs of degeneration.
** Analytical: no relevant findings.
Family and community approach Male 71 years old, independent for all BADL.
With good family support.
With private health resources.
He was retired and in complete family contraction phase, mature family.
Action plan During successive consultations, the patient partially improves postherpetic neuralgia, by allowing reduction of analgesic treatment time 25 mg lodiparatyl, tegretamol 8 mg, lidocaine▁patches 200).
This does not occur with peripheral facial paralysis.
The patient provides reports of the therapy performed in a private hospital: physiotherapy and rehabilitation, acupuncture and facial nerve stimulation.
Finally, they propose the possibility of surgical treatment that rejects.
Clinical judgement (listed problems, differential diagnosis) Relapsing ganglionic syndrome, idiopathic or Bell's palsy, post-acute paralysis, acquired hypersensitivity), rare congenital cholesteatoma, colitis
Ev. Communicated with clinical judgment of Herpes Zoster Facial vs Les▁dermatological filiations.
Over the days, the process had a torpid evolution, associating hearing loss and paralysis, requiring the evaluation of different specialties.
Refractory severe Rhabad Syndrome was confirmed.
The patient currently suffers different post-herpetic sequels such as peripheral facial paralysis, decreased taste sensitivity and hearing loss left ear that have improved slightly after multiple treatments.
