A 70-year-old male with a feeling of «painful tenderness» in the muscles of the face and neck and difficulty swallowing food.
He is hypertensive under treatment, operated on for bilateral inguinal hernia and ex-smoker.
T: 183/104, temperature 35.8, heart rate 107, oxygen saturation.
He is conscious, oriented, regular general state and sweating prof.
Meningeal negatives.
No exanthema, no petechiae.
The oropharyngeal cavity is normal, normal cranial nerves.
You have cervical stiffness, pain in the cervical spine apophysis, and contracture of muscles for
Cardiac auscultation revealed fever 96 bpm.
The abdomen is blushing, depressible, painless.
In the lower extremities, the wound is 4 x 3 cm, with necrotic edges in the left pretibial area.
We asked the patient about the wound: it was done eight days before with a motto-forced.
He came to CAP for cure, suture (eight points) and anti-tetanus vaccine administration (one for eight years).
Gamma-globulin was not administered.
Three days before he came to our service, he had been cured by his doctor and was given amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875/125 and ibuprofen.
▁Complementary tests were requested and symptomatic treatment was established to cover possible meningitis or tetanus, as well as wound infection: Ketorolac.
Pantoprazole.
Cefotaxime 2 g and vancomycin 1 g. Dexamethasone 8 mg. Diazepam 5 mg. Anti-tetanus immunoglobulin Gamma.
Doxy fixed 100 mg and 500 mg oxy metronidazole coated with 2 lpm.
Wound healing with H2O2.
Additional tests: CBC N, except 15,550 neutrophilia leukocytes (90.4%).
Biochemistry N, except CK 555, CKmb 7, 4, myoglobin 794.4.
PCR 5.
I'm sorry, 7.8.
Normal coagulation.
Venous gases: pH 7.41, PCO2 lactate 1.1, bicarbonate 23.5.
Chest X-ray: no findings.
ECG: RS at 75 bpm, QRS axis at 0o, with no abnormalities.
The patient was evaluated by surgery and the wound was debrided. A sample was taken for culture, and a cure was achieved with argentic tape.
The patient seems to improve with treatment, but after a few hours he presents more tension in muscles of face and neck, with difficulty swallowing saliva.
We report the case of an intensivist suspected of tetanus (necrotic wound and facial trismus).
He was assessed by intensive care medicine and was diagnosed with subacute tetanus syndrome.
He is admitted with acceptable general condition, but starts repeated hypertonic crisis with stimuli + respiratory failure, requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation.
The patient was treated with Baclofen.
Metronidazole and cefoxime
(negative wound culture).
Fluconazole (C. Glabrata in urine).
Heparin, then acenocoumarol (ventricular venous thrombosis in left coronary artery).
Continued tetanus vaccination (2nd dose).
He survived 13 days in the ICU and one month in an internal medicine ward.
