A 41-year-old woman, born in Venezuela, with no history of interest, came to the emergency department complaining of 4 days of fever with general▁malaise, myalgias and chest pain with characteristics of pleuroparesis.
On arrival to the emergency department, the patient presented general hemodynamic instability with hypotension (AT 87/59 mmHg), tachycardia (100lpm), fever (38.3oC), poor distal perfusion, and hypercholesterolemia (4.2 mmol/l).
On physical examination excelled cardiac tones are highlighted, the rest being normal.
The electrocardiogram showed low voltages.
Analytically, there was an increase in NT-proBNP (up to 18528 pg/ml) and troponin (up to 300 ng/l) without other abnormalities.
These findings were obtained by an emergency echocardiogram, which showed global hypokinesia and systolic dysfunction of both ventricles with minimal pericardial effusion.
Blood cultures and nasopharyngeal▁exudates were extracted for influenza (which consulted at epidemic time) and admission to the coronary care unit with a diagnosis of cardiogenic shock due to probable fulminant myocarditis.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging was performed due to its high profitability for the diagnosis of myocarditis and its lower invasiveness compared to the endomyocardial biopsy, which showed signs of edema and inflammatory changes in the left ventricle with diffuse distribution compatible with
Regarding the etiologic diagnosis, we must consider infections (viral infections are the most frequent), drugs, toxic, systemic autoimmune diseases (SAD) and metabolic diseases mainly.
Since the patient was not taking drugs or toxics, this possibility was ruled out.
Regarding ASD, the suspicion was low given the acute onset and the lack of extracardiac manifestations both prior and at the present time also presenting negative autoimmunity panel (ANA, FR).
We performed screening of the most common endocrine-metabolic diseases, which was also negative.
Regarding viral infections, the most frequently described are enterovirus, adenovirus, parvovirus B19 and some herpes family viruses (HHV6, CMV and EBV).
Given the origin of the patient was also performed screening for tropical infections such as T. cruzi, which was negative.
Positive PCR for influenza A virus was obtained, and the definitive diagnosis was fulminant myotis due to influenza A (H1N1).
