A previously healthy 22-year-old patient was admitted to the emergency department with 8 days of pulsatile hemicrane headache, nausea and photophobia, which worsened with rest.
He also complained of pain in the right upper limb that began first in his hand and then ascended, symmetrically compromising the entire limb.
He reported that pain worsened with movement and in the previous hours was associated with paresthesias and dysesthesias.
Initially she was assessed by the Neurology service, who hospitalized her with a diagnosis of probable brachial plexitis.
Lumbar puncture and cervical spine images were performed with normal results, so they began treatment with gabapentin for pain.
During the days of hospitalization, the patient received neurological care, called mental attention, which, two days prior to admission, presented an episode of parasomnia, with a sensation of vivid dreams, but was considered an adverse effect.
After 7 days of hospitalization and complete resolution of the clinical picture, the patient was considered to have a fever.
One week later, the patient developed fever, dysphagia, dysarthria, difficulty swallowing, hypoxia, sialorrhea, right hemiparesis and generalized muscle spasms.
The condition progressed rapidly within hours to a decoma state, with decortication posture, with significant sialorrhea and severe spasms at the cervical and oropharyngeal muscles.
She presented nuchal▁rigidity with bilateral extensor plantar responses, so she suffered an infectious brain process.
It was decided to perform intubation and mechanical ventilation in theemergency recovery room.
The brain computed tomography was normal, the cytochemical study of the cerebrospinal fluid showed no abnormalities.
Given the clinical suspicion of rabies, the patient was asked to ask family members to investigate a history involving potential exposure to rabies, and her family confirmed that the patient had suffered a bite for a cat in the right hand for a month 3 before.
In addition, the grandmother had also been bitten by the same cat, who died 30 days before apparently due to a polyneuropathic condition and symptoms of heel, with a final diagnosis of Guillain syndrome seba.
The cat belonged to the family and was vaccinated against rabies, but was devoted to hunt bats. The Milwaukee protocol was started the same day before the high clinical probability of drug-induced midazolam plus antiviral therapy (7 days).
Serum anti-rabies antibodies and cornea imprints for rabies were negative. Sedation was performed on the third day after the start of the Milwaukee protocol because the patient developed hypothermia.
A simple brain tomography was requested, which showed marked diffuse cerebral edema and associated subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Cerebral tomography showed fourth ventricle with cerebral edema and hemorrhage.
Ascending transtentorial herniations and bilateral cerebellar spasms.
The patient subsequently developed ventricular fibrillation and asystole, which is why she died.
During necropsy, pressure grooves were identified in the hippocampus uncus and cerebellar tonsils, in which encephalomalacia and hemorrhage were evidenced.
At the level of the mesencephalon, punctiform hemorrhagic lesions were evident, compatible with Duret hemorrhages.
Macroscopic observation of brain tissue showing punctiform hemorrhagic lesions consistent with Duret's hemorrhages.
On microscopic examination, brain sections showed significant vascular congestion with focal presence of perivascular cuffs and presence of glial nodules and gliosis with cerebral parenchymal edema.
There were focal changes in neuronophagia.
Eosinophilic inclusions compatible with Negri bodies were identified at the cytoplasm of cerebral cortical neurons, hippocampus and Purkinje neurons.
Postmortem brain biopsy showed cytoplasm of cerebral cortical neurons (eosinophilic inclusions compatible with Negri bodies).
Purkinje neurons (eosinophilic inclusions compatible with Negri bodies).
The anatomopathological findings confirmed the diagnosis of rachidian encephalitis and the primary cause of death was brain herniation secondary to endocranean hypertension.
Direct immunofluorescence (DIF) was positive for rabies virus and the biological test in mice was also positive.
Antigenic variant 4, which is associated with insecticide bats, was identified.
In this case, the bat-to-human transmission chain was triggered by the cat, who had bat hunting habits.
The public health research found that eight health workers in the hospital had been exposed, either through mucous membranes or non-intact skin with infectious fluids, such as saliva, cerebrospinal fluid or CSF.
All eight patients received post-exposure prophylaxis therapy with a single intramuscular dose (40 IU/kg) of human globulin to rabies.
In addition, they identified 32 social contacts (studymates and friends) classified as severe exposure, receiving complete post-exposure treatment (human globulin a rabies and the 5 doses of the vaccine), with no adverse effects reported.
