Anamnesis A 47-year-old female patient with a history of hypertension and Crohn's disease treated with a closed table. She was followed up in an urology department due to a history of left-sided chorionic liquid stones left-sided gallstone group in 2002 1.8CH.
In the prone position, a percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PNL) attempt was performed, and the patient failed to approach the urinary tract after multiple attempts.
A retroperitoneal drainage catheter was left in place and a double J catheter was placed via▁retrograde drainage.
In the postoperative abdominal X-ray, the correct placement of the double J catheter was verified, and the presence of a metal density material superimposed on the left flank was also observed.
Since the patient remains asymptomatic, it was decided to maintain an expectant attitude in the presence of a foreign body.
The procedure was repeated in April 2012, performing successful left PCNL, achieving total extraction of lithiasic fragments, and placing a new double J catheter, which was removed in consultation at 21 days.
The patient came to consultation for review 3 months after the intervention, referring to the presence of an induration at the abdominal level.
In the control computed tomography (CT), a metallic foreign body is observed in the left paraumbilical subcutaneous cellular tissue.
Physical examination revealed a left paraumbilical superficial linear induration.
▁Complementary tests • Postoperative abdominal radiography failed left NLP: left double J catheter in apparent adequate location.
Superimposed drainage to the left renal silhouette.
Material of metal density superimposed to the left flank.
To evaluate surgical technique.
Left kidney stones showed no significant changes.
• CT scan of the abdomen: changes in relation to left percutaneous nephrolithotomy, identifying a lithiasis in relation to the lower lime group of approximately 5-6 mm.
Small▁calculi in the calcified group.
Metallic foreign body in relation to fat of subcutaneous cellular tissue in left paraumbilical location.
Diagnosis Left paraumbilical subcutaneous metallic foreign body in a woman with a history of left PCNL, with presence of metallic material superimposed on the left flank in the immediate postoperative period.
Treatment In September 2012, mosquito extraction of a left paraumbilical foreign body compatible with a 4 cm long sensor guide was performed under local anesthesia in two segments.
The patient was discharged on the same day of the intervention.
Follow-up in the clinic one month later is asymptomatic.
She is waiting for a control abdominal CT and uroculture for monitoring of her lithiasic pathology.
