A 23-month-old male patient presented with a 20-day clinical picture of upper respiratory symptoms such as hyaline rhinorrhea, nasal obstruction, mild odynophagia and rhinorrhea, which resolved spontaneously but with feverish peaks.
He came to the emergency room due to multiple lymphadenopathies with visible cervical predominance.
Five days prior to admission, the patient developed marked hypoxia and asthenia and progressive adynamia.
He was admitted due to suspected mononucleoid facial paralysis and on the second day he developed sudden right peripheral facial paralysis, so he was interconsulted to the Otorhinolaryngology service.
The patient was previously healthy and had no known pathological history. His family denied history of otologic disease or otologic symptoms before or during the current disease.
The father reported having contact with ticks and was sold in Mesitas del Colegio – rural area of Cundinamarca– one month before the consultation. On physical examination at admission, he had bilateral, febrile, tachypaque facial paralysis House,
No visceromegaly and rest within normal limits.
Paraclinical tests were reported with rapid tests for negative EBV, negative MGC, negative IgG Toxoplasma.
Blood count identified: leukocytes (19000), neutrophils (54%), CRP (165) and normal CSF.
It was decided to perform an ear tomography that showed hypertrophy of the mucosa of the▁tympanic cavity and mastoid due to material density of blade tissues without other apparent alterations, auditory evoked potentials with bilateral conductive hearing loss.
With suspicion of Lyme disease, ceftriaxone IV was initiated at 100mg/kg/day, prednisolone at 1mg/kg/day.
Due to the patient's medical history, she presented physical examination with complete facial paralysis and electroneuronography with evidence of denervation greater than 98%. On the seventh day, it was decided to perform an ipsilateral muro facial mastoidectomy with third nerve ventilation tube.
Intraoperatively we found mastoid mucosa and severely ill▁tympanic cavity without purulent content.
Satisfactory decompression was achieved and samples were sent for pathology and culture.
The patient had a favorable evolution: febrile episodes ceased before 24 hours of surgery, there was a noticeable improvement in general condition with return of appetite, mobility on the fifth day of postoperative period there was a slight improvement of lip closure.
The report of IgG for Borrelia was positive in 38 dilutions (normal value <5) and the patient was discharged after 14 days of hospital treatment with electromyography showing recovery of 5-10% of the oral branch in the innervation.
After 15 days the patient showed notorious clinical improvement House-Brackmann III-IV/VI.
Three months after the onset of symptoms, the patient presented complete ocular closure, movement of the lower third only with maximum effort and onset of frontal mobilization.
