A 41-year-old male, without adverse reactions to known drugs, smokes 6 cigarettes a day, denies other toxic substances.
The personal history included depression after the death of their parents, and erectile dysfunction without organic cause.
She had a perianal fistula and ankle osteosyntesis due to an accident.
You do not have regular treatment
come from a rural area in contact with cattle, dogs and cats.
He denied consumption of non-pasteurized products, as well as recent trips, bites and risky sexual contacts.
Family history: deceased father due to colon cancer.
The patient came to the emergency room with fever of up to 40oC, headache and intense asthenia, which had evolved for five days, without other accompanying symptoms.
On physical examination, the patient was hemodynamically stable, tachycardic and presented with painful hepatomegaly.
No skin or joint involvement.
Pancytopenia (Hb) 12.8 mg/dl, leucocytes▁3.910/mm3, platelets 43.000/mm3 (Normal: 150,000-450,000), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)
Renal function and stenosis values were within normal limits.
Serial blood cultures, urine cultures, and serology were obtained.
The chest X-ray showed no condensation images.
Abdominal ultrasound shows the spleen in the upper limit of normal (12.7 cm).
A diagnosis of zoonoses was made based on the clinical history, and treatment with isoniazid was started.
During admission, fever was well tolerated, progressively decreasing, until a daily episode without sweating occurred.
There were no bleeding episodes or hematomas.
The hemocultives were repeatedly negative, the urocultive was also negative.
Serology revealed infection with cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Epstein&#146;s anomaly (VEB), hepatotropic virus negative.
Coxiella burnvo, 2 Bartonella quintana and B. henselae, Leptospira spp., Ri parrotsia B., Brucella sp., Toxoplasma gondii negative and slope.
Giemsa staining and Giemsa staining were negative.
Serology against Leishmania spp was requested, but due to the lack of availability in the Microbiology laboratory this was not performed.
For the diagnosis of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), both serology and quantitative determination of viral load were performed, and both were negative.
Mantoux and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) were requested, which were negative.
Microscopic examination of samples stained with Ziehl-Neel dyes showed acid-fast bacilli after 46 days of culture, and negative mycobacterial culture was also obtained at this time.
In the following analytical control, there was evidence of improvement in both transaminases and inflammatory parameters.
The leukocytes were 3.04% (N: 0.5-1.5), which indicates a peripheral origin of anemia.
The direct Coombs test was positive, suggesting hemolytic anemia.
In the peripheral blood smear, no morphological changes were observed that oriented towards the origin of pancitretin, as contacted with Hematology.
Both aspiration and bone marrow biopsy were performed, direct cytohistochemical study was requested, along with staining and culture to rule out mycobacterial infection, leishmaniasis and Brucella; the presence of abnormalities in the stain was not reported.
During admission, the patient remains asymptomatic, except for the presence of isolated episodes of fever without sweating with antipyretics, and is hemodynamically stable.
It is agreed with the patient to continue the study on an outpatient basis.
However, the patient is readmitted after 3 days due to persistent fever despite antipyretic treatment, the febrile syndrome that begins to be ill-treated.
The physical examination was anodyne, and pannocytemia persisted as analytical control.
Chest and abdominal CT showed small nonspecific mediastinal lymphadenopathies, mild stenosis (13.6 cm) and retrocrural and periaortic adenopathies.
A bone marrow biopsy was repeated, showing a poor representation of the myeloid series and dysplastic megakaryocytes with mild fibrosis.
▁Cytology ruled out lymphomatous.
Autoimmune study was requested. Initially, anti smooth muscle antibodies and antinuclear antibodies (ANA) were positive (pattern electrode 1/160), and then normalized.
Proteinogram and tumor markers were normal.
Both triglyceride (TG) 211 mg/dl (N<150) and ferritin levels 4190 ng/ml (N 12-300 in men) were elevated.
The patient develops a direct jaundice, worsening of hepatic function: AST and ALT>1000 U/l, total bilirubin 8 mg/dl (NLD alkaline phosphatase (GTFA), elevated lactate (GTFA) due to the gamma matrix).
A transjugular liver biopsy was performed, showing submassive necrosis of probable toxic origin, as well as abundant▁ferric pigment in Kupffer cells.
In this context, a liver magnetic resonance imaging was requested, showing moderate iron overload, with no mass images.
The liver sample was stained with Congo Red staining, which was negative.
Differential diagnosis The differential diagnosis that arises in a young male with high fever of community origin, pancreatitis bacterial and tuberculous liver disease (primary bacterial disease of infectious cause such as hepatitis B virus), and especially in our environment hepatitis B virus.
On the other hand, diseases with malignant invasion of OM (myelofibrosis, leukemia, lymphoma) or myelodysplastic syndromes.
Hemophagocytic syndrome, in addition to other liver diseases and autoimmune diseases, would also be included in the differential diagnosis.
Possible toxic pharmacological effects or chemical agents (cytotoxic agents,▁benzene, antiepileptic drugs) should always be included in the differential diagnosis.
Pathologic diseases such as Gaucher disease, hemochromatosis or amyloidosis are also considered as potential causes of stenosis.
Serotyping was repeated and serology was positive for IgG and IgM parvovirus B19, the rest negative.
Given the persistence of pancit, bone marrow study is repeated, where hemophagocytosis is observed: proliferation of normal-morphology histiocytes with intense phagocytic activity of hemopoietic cells.
No evidence of seizures.
The diagnosis of hemophagocytic syndrome was confirmed, according to the following criteria: fever, cytology compatible, nodular hyperplasia and cites in the three series.
In the bone marrow study, there was no evidence of presence of bone marrow or other microorganisms.
At this time, the reactivation of a parvovirus B19 infection evidenced in serology is postulated as a possible cause.
Due to the patient's poor clinical evolution, with worsening of liver function, she was accepted by the Hematology Service, starting chemotherapy for HPS with ELD-HLA and Dexamethasone, according to the protocol scheme 94.
After the first cycle of chemotherapy there is an improvement in liver parameters to a complete normalisation, therefore the addition of ciclosporin was not necessary.
Two months later, the patient was discharged from the Hematology Department for follow-up in outpatient clinics.
However, given the persistence and persistence of fever and hemophagomas, despite not being included in the action protocol for a hemophagocytic syndrome, a study of bone marrow is repeated in the absence of Leishmania, and in the cytological diagnosis.
Leishmania due to this circumstance, and to date the chronology of leishmaniasis, a sample of the patient from the serotheca of the Microbiology laboratory is used, corresponding to the first admission, and given that the technique is already available,
This was positive, indicating that the patient was already infected with Leishmania spp.
at the beginning of the clinical picture, although it has not been documented in repeated bone marrow studies.
Final diagnosis The final diagnosis is hemophagocytic syndrome secondary to visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in an immunocompetent patient, who secondarily develops acute hepatitis with submassive necrosis and acute liver failure.
