A 43-year-old patient presented to the emergency department with fever and▁malaise of three weeks duration.
The patient had no family or personal medical-surgical history of interest and only occasional intake of analgesics and common analgesics.
Active smoker of 1 paq/day since age 12 and regular beer drinker and occasional gynebra.
He lived with his mother in the rural area of the province of Granada, being single and without children.
He devoted himself to farm work and livestock so that he had daily contact with animals (goats, dogs and hens), had not made recent international trips or had had had sexual risk contact in the past 12 months.
Fever was daily, up to 40oC, lasting about 3 weeks, predominantly evening and bacteriological characteristics, accompanied by shivering, night sweats and professional sweating.
It was also associated with great asthenia, progressive general weakness and weight loss that had not been weighed for one year, which had increased in the last four months.
In the anamnesis by organs and devices, he only described mild pharyngeal pain and nonspecific abdominal discomfort, with a feeling of abdominal discovery, dry cough without expectoration or long dyspnea Table 1.
On physical examination upon arrival, the patient was hemodynamically stable with a tendency to hypotension (Temperature 36.4o C, TA 108/62 mmHg, HR 66 bpm, RR 16 bpm and good baseline SpO2 98%).
Physical examination revealed no abnormalities.
The patient was conscious and oriented, and the neurological examination was compatible with normality.
The oropharynx was slightly erythematous without▁exudate and there were no cervical, preauricular, supraclavicular, axillary or inguinal lymphadenopathies.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation was compatible with normalcy.
Abdominal pain was present in all patients.
In the extremities there were no edemas, signs of DVT, skin lesions or stigmata of bites.
Initial laboratory tests revealed pancitm x leukocytes 3280 x 10e3/cl, neutrophils 36.1% (absolute 1180 x 10e3/mcl), platelets 18.20 g1.63/mc (absolute
Biochemical tests showed a slight elevation of LDH (585 IU/L), enzymes (GOT 67/L, GPT 143 GPT with total hepatic bilirrubin U/L) 207 mg normal U/L.,
Renal function and dementia were within normal limits.
Anemia study was performed and found an iron of 27 mcg/ dl with a compatible ferritin of 3581 ng/ml, transferrin 175 mg/dl, STI 12.4% and normal peripheral blood smears.
Finally, in basic coagulation, prothrombin activity was 71% and INR 1.25.
ECG, chest X-ray were performed.
The abdomen was fixed and lateral, and the plain radiograph of the decubitus position was normal.
Ultrasound showed moderate heterogeneous hepatomegaly and abdominal echogenicity.
With the diagnoses of fever of intermediate duration, pancit and hepatomegaly were admitted to the Infectious Diseases Service.
Differential diagnosis The differential diagnosis of a patient with fever, pancit fever and septic arthritis is not uncommon in an Infectious Diseases Department.
In general we can raise three origins: infectious cause, tumor cause and autoimmune cause, although we cannot forget other miscellaneous.
Among the infectious etiologies we find multiple microorganisms that can course with this condition: a) virus: there would be to rule out HIV infection, herpes viral infection (HSV, EBV, CMV, VH6) and disseminated form of infection with Leishmania virus.
In the group of▁onco-hematological diseases, it is necessary to consider the possibility of a solid organ tumor with spinal cord injury.
Regarding diseases, we find a wide range of possibilities in a patient with fever, cites and psoriasis.
It will be necessary to rule out▁lymphoproliferative disease (mainly a splenic lymphoma and thrombocytopenia), myelofibrosis or myelodysplastic syndrome.
Although less likely, we should also consider ruling out autoimmune or connective diseases, especially systemic lupus erythematosus, sarcoidosis, and much less frequently rheumatoid arthritis as a Felty syndrome.
Within the miscellaneous group, the clinical picture could correspond to a hemophagocytic▁lymphocytic leukemia syndrome.
Although less likely, a histiocytosis or nocturnal paroxysmal hemoglobinuria could not be ruled out either.
With this wide range of possibilities, we must fit the data provided by the patient to arrive at the definitive diagnosis.
This is a paulatine process in which specific complementary tests are often needed.
CMV and IgM were also positive at admission. Negative hepatitis, HIV, Parvovirus B19, ESR, HBV6, lees and Brucella viruses were detected and IgG serology tests were negative.
As part of the study also requested an abdominal CAT scan, highlighting only moderate hepatomegaly without evidence of pleuropulmonary, mediastinal, hepatic LOES or lymphadenopathy alterations.
Because of these results, a nonspecific aspiration-puncture of the bone marrow was performed, and no hemophagocytosis, dysplasia, myelofibrosis or pathological cellular infiltrate were observed.
While the patient was admitted to the ward, he remained hemodynamically stable at all times, but with a high daily fever of up to 40oC difficult to control. The general condition was slightly affected when he was apyretic.
Multiple blood cultures were obtained during admission, all of them negative.
Due to fever with elevation of liver enzymes and cites, it was decided to start empirical treatment with oxysmal acid, which was withdrawn a week for no improvement.
Given the absence of diagnosis and that the patient continued with daily fever, it was decided jointly by the Infectious, Hematology and General Surgery Services to perform a splanchectomy when▁lymphoproliferative syndrome is suspected.
After the intervention, the patient improved, with a decrease in fever, improvement in general condition, and recovery of cytospins.
The pathology report of the spleen described abundant hemophagocytosis phenomena.
After knowing this information, we requested PCR for Leishmania in the spleen being positive.
The patient was treated with liposomal amphotericin B at usual doses (3 cycles of 5 mg/kg/day separated by 5 days) with very good clinical evolution, full recovery and no recurrence after 2 years of follow-up.
Final diagnosis: Lymphocytic colitis secondary to leishmaniasis.
