Anamnesis A 52-year-old man, born in Paraguay (resident in Spain for 7 years), smoker of approximately 3-4 cigarettes a day and with a personal history of hypertension of several years of evolution with regular control.
He denies other toxic habits and does not have other vascular risk factors.
It is independent for basic activities of daily living and works in the construction sector.
Currently, she does not follow any usual treatment.
The patient came to the emergency department because, being previously asymptomatic, on June 6, 2013, he had a feeling of dizziness, gait instability and temporospatial disorientation.
He did not present other symptoms of motor focality and did not refer headache, fever or previous infectious symptoms.
Upon arrival to the emergency department, the patient had blood pressure levels of 216/136 mmHg.
Physical exam.
Two pigmented skin plaques in the left pretibial region.
The rest of the general examination showed no alterations.
Neurological alteration: conscious and disoriented in time and space.
Language: decreased fluency, occasional altered nomination, repetition and normal comprehension.
No dysarthria.
Normal cranial nerves.
Motor system: preserved tone and style.
Muscle balance (BM) 4+/5 in the right lower limb (in the rest of the limbs BM 5/5).
Preserved and symmetrical viability.
Osteotendinous present and symmetrical features.
Cutaneous-plantar bilateral flexor contracture.
No dysmetria or dysdiadochokinesia.
NIHSS score 0 points.
▁Complementary tests • Laboratory data: normal blood count, coagulation and biochemistry.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study: total proteins 844 mg/dl (75-320), normal glycorrachya, neurospecific enolase 52.2 ng/ml (0.5-8.5), basic myelin protein 6.6-1.5).
Serology positive for IgG syphilis (VDRL negative, PCR negative).
Serology remains (Cisticerco, HIV, brucellosis, toxoplasma, rubella, cytomegalovirus) negative.
• Serum microbiology: positive IgG syphilis serology, positive RPR 1⁄4; positive TPPA.
Serology remains (Cisticerco, Brucella, toxoplasma, rubella, cytomegalovirus, histoplasma) negative.
• Computed tomography (CT) of the brain on admission (7/3/2013): cerebral hemorrhage in the thalamus and posterior arm of the internal capsule, approximately 19 x 36 mm with mass effect and displacement of the midline of the lumen.
A computed tomography scan of the brain showed left thalamus-sided bleeding on admission.
1b.
Brain computed tomography performed 26 days after admission showed resolution of bleeding and appearance of hypodense lesions in the white matter bispheric.
• CT scan of the brain (3/4/2013): left thalamic bleeding in resolution.
Less common mental disorders: periventricular white matter and semioval centers.
• Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (12/4/2013): left posterior thalamic hemorrhagic lesion.
Small foci hyperintense on T2 and FLAIR in the white matter without edema or mass effect.
These lesions do not present uptake after contrast administration.
• Cerebral arteriography (6/5/2013): discrete segmental irregularities isolated in the branches of both pericallosal arteries of the right posterior frontal convexity, and something more evident also from a left parietal branch of the left pericalla artery.
Axial FLAIR sequence of brain magnetic resonance imaging shows multiple hyperintense bispheric hyperintense lesions with probable ischemic etiology.
Cerebral arteriography of the patient showed mild segmental irregularities in the branches of the pericallosal artery.
Diagnosis: left thalamic-to-left cerebral hemorrhage secondary to arterial hypertension.
Less than usual, white matter of probable ischemic etiology.
Possible infectious arteriopathy
Tertiary syphilis with central nervous system involvement (probable meningovascular syphilis).
Subcortical deficiency of multifactorial etiology (vascular and infectious).
Treatment The patient was admitted to the Stroke Unit, where anti-hypertensive and anti-hypertensive therapy was initiated, persisting despite this poor control of the figures, requiring thromboembolism, resulting in a persistent infection caused by Acinetobacter bacillitis.
From a neurological point of view, the patient develops a subcortical cognitive impairment with a marked attentional and executive functions deficit.
(MMSE score of 16/30), mild paresis persists in the right lower limb (BM 4+/5) and a nominative aphasia with frequent paralysis.
Blood and CSF positive syphilis serology (possibly artefacted by a previous antibiotic cycle) was detected, starting penicillin treatment for 14 days.
Brain CT performed on a plant showed multiple probable hypocortical lesions that did not appear in previous examinations, so the differential diagnosis of these lesions was proposed as one of the most infectious causes.
The patient evolved favorably, with an MMSE score of 25/30 after completing treatment with penicillin.
