A 40-year-old male, with no history of interest, no usual treatment or toxic habits, who consulted for arthromyalgia, diplopia and night sweats weight loss of 8 kg in the last week.
Work as a farmer and farmer.
Physical examination revealed an anodyne with a fever of 38.5oC a single night.
A left thigh lesion compatible with tick bite and a paralysis of the VI right cranial pair from 72 hours before admission was highlighted.
▁Complementary tests performed in the emergency room were simple laboratory tests, chest X-ray and unenhanced head CT, which showed no abnormalities.
C-reactive protein including bacterial herpes, infectious process: general laboratory test and serology (including leuk, HIV, brucella, borreliabacteria, cryptosia, uroprosy, toxoplasma), haemocultive
Transesophageal echocardiogram was also performed.
The result of all this is negative.
- Neuropathic process: negative electrophysiological study.
- Paraneoplastic process: tumour markers, proteinogram and body-CTA with normal results except for small renal infarctions.
- Autoimmune process: determination of ANA, antiDNA, C3, C4, HLA B27, HLA B51 and quantification of GI are normal.
Angio CT of the normal aorta.
Cranial MRI was performed with and without contrast, highlighting thickening of the pituitary stalk as the only finding.
Case Report: The evolution of the patient is torpid, with pains that do not present analgesia and febrile syndrome.
The patient was treated empirically with Doxysteroid and later with Ceftriaxone and Ciprofloxacin, without improvement of the clinical picture.
A few days later, the patient presented acute hepatitis and pancreatitis, together with severe thrombopenia (4300/mm3) and marked polyuria and thirst.
Abdominal ultrasound is normal.
Bone biopsy of the iliac crest was performed, confirming the diagnosis: acute▁lymphocytic leukemia (kidney failure), L3 (ALL).In addition, a multidisciplinary assessment of the patient ruled out primary digestive pathology, secondary pancreatitis,
Intrathecal chemotherapy was initiated with a rapid and favorable evolution of the patient.
