A 79-year-old man, a former smoker from the age of 70 (total 30 pack-years) who consulted for a fever of one month onset.
Pathological history included allergy to penicillin, hypertension without vascular complications, chronic non-acute bronchitis and benign prostatic hyperplasia.
In usual treatment with Plusvent accuhaler 50/500 mcg 1 inh, Amlotine 5m every 24h, Doxazosine 4mg 1 comp every 24h.
The clinical picture began on 09.07. Consultation at the referral hospital for pain right sacral lumbosacral with exploratory maneuvers of sacroiliitis was performed, which led to suggestive pain, yielding a gradual decrease.
The patient was referred to the same hospital on 07/23.13 due to fever of 8 days of evolution with chills, accompanied by dysuria, sporadic vomiting of food content and some episode of diarrhea without pathological products.
A blood count showed no leukocytosis, negative urinary sediment, being evaluated as enteroinvasive gastroenteritis treatment with ciprofloxacin 500 mg every 12 hours for 10 days was performed.
On 08/12.13 in our center due to persistent high fever of up to 39oC, daily and predominantly evening, accompanied by profuse sweating episodes with poor gastrointestinal resolution, accompanied by asthenia gravis with occasional episodes
As an epidemiological background, he had traveled to the province of Badajoz 7 days before the consultation.
Physical examination revealed a temperature of 38.1oC, minimal wound in the right pretibial scar region without inflammatory signs, without stigmata of infective endocarditis without other relevant findings.
Laboratory tests showed elevated acute phase reactants and normocytic normochromic anemia without evidence of hemolysis, which was oriented as secondary to the underlying inflammatory process.
Lumbar puncture was performed, which showed CSF of clear appearance with▁lymphocytic pleocytosis, mild proteinorrhachia and normal glycorrhachia.
Germ serology causing mononucleic syndromes Quantilia, BorVIferga negative Lepxoplasma IgG+IgM-, EBV IgG+/IgferM-, RosagM IgG+, CMV
A CT scan ruled out intra-abdominal abscesses, organomegaly, or pathological lymphadenopathy.
Transthoracic echocardiogram ruled out vegetations.
ANAs under 1/320.
Suspicion of recurrent fever type borreliosis endemic for ticks based on epidemiology, compatible clinical features and positive IgM serology for Borrelia burgdorferi.
Positive CMV serology is suggested as a possible reactivation of latent chronic infection by relative immunosuppression in the context of subacute Borrelia infection.
However, in the absence of compatible symptoms and the existence of a more plausible alternative cause that justifies the picture, antiviral treatment is not considered tributary.
Finally, the presence of Hispanic Borrelia was confirmed by PCR.
The patient started treatment with corticosteroids at a dose of 100mg/12h, with good tolerance (especially non-clinical signs suggestive of Jarish-Herxheimer's reaction) and remained apyretic for less than 12 hours.
The patient remained afflicted with progressive improvement of the general condition and analytical resolution.
