An 82-year-old male patient with a history of allergy to contrast agents, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and gastrointestinal bleeding in relation to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for 14 years.
Aortic valve replacement was performed 10 years ago for aortic valve stenosis, with implantation of a biological valve and re-operated two months ago for degeneration of this valve with implantation of a new biological prosthesis Edwards Magna 23.
During the last admission, the patient developed de novo atrial fibrillation with a CHADS2 score of 2, requiring oral anticoagulation upon discharge.
He was admitted to the hospital with infectious diseases for one month due to early prosthetic endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus epidermis resistant to urticaria.
The patient had a good evolution and was discharged with daptomycin 750 mg/24h administered daily in the Day Hospital.
The usual home treatment at this time was enalapril 20 mg hours, simvastatin 20 mg/24 hours, furosemide mg/24 hours, daptomycin 20 mg/24 hours, and daptomycin 20 mg/24 hours as controls.
On the seventh day after discharge, during his visit to the Day Hospital for antibiotic infusion, he reported a predominantly evening fever, slight increase in dyspnea and poor general condition but without digestive, urinary or abdominal focus.
Given his background, it was decided to be admitted for study.
On physical examination, the patient was in a regular general condition with blood pressure of 120/75 mmHg, heart rate of 75 bpm, and temperature of 38.5oC.
Basal oxygen saturation 92% and 75 kg weight.
Upon auscultation, the patient was arrhythmic and showed an ejective murmur of 1/4 in the aortic area.
He also had minimal crackles in both bases.
Abdominal examination and examination of the lower extremities revealed no signs of endocarditis.
At admission, 9950 leukocytes/mm3 stood out in the blood PCR with 86.3% neutrophils and an increase in liver enzymes (GOT 39 IU/L, GPT 40 IU/L, GGT 281 IU/L)
An antegrade chest X-ray showed condensation in the right hemithorax scarce quantity. A CT scan of the chest revealed multiple emphysemas in the right hemithorax, pleural effusions more than two days later, and showed multiple consolidations.
Left ventricular hemocultives were echocardiography performed three times at 3 days difference between them and the urocultive were negative and in the transthoracic performed at 3 and 14 days of admission a normal aortic function was suggested.
Differential diagnosis In this case we would have to make a differential diagnosis of fever and pulmonary condensation in a patient with a recent admission.
Infectious, inflammatory/rheumatologic or autoimmune causes can be distinguished.
Given the history of endocarditis and recent hospital admission, we could first move towards an infectious cause of nosocomial origin although without ruling out other possibilities: 1.
Recurrent infectious endocarditis with acute pulmonary edema: a transthoracic ultrasound was performed without data of heart failure or malfunctioning of the prosthesis and serial hemocultives to rule out it.
2.
▁Pneumonia of nosocomial origin for which empirical broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment was established pending results due to the possibility of resistant germs.
Urine antigens to Neumococo and Legionella were negative, sputum could not be performed due to poor patient expectoration.
3.
Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia: radiographic pattern similar to our patient but generally more subacute course, good response to▁steroids but frequent relapses since there is no known trigger.
4.
Drug-associated eosinophilic pneumonia: similar to cryptogenic organizing pneumonia but with a clear trigger, a drug, and with▁eosinophils in the bronchioloalveolar lavage.
Methotrexate, nitrofurin, phenytoin and amides are the drugs most frequently associated with this condition.
5.
Acute interstitial pneumonia (APN): diffuse lung disease and respiratory failure, distinguished from acute eosinophilic pneumonia by the absence of▁eosinophils in the lavage fluid.
It usually manifests in a more acute and fulminant way than the clinical presentation of our patient.
Other possibilities although Chpicomeg (evolution and because they were independent of the initial episode but should be considered once the previous ones are ruled out, they would be tumoral etiology or inflammatory broncho-asylum vasculitis, pulmonary syndrome.
During admission, empirical broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy was started due to the possibility of nosocomial pneumonia but the patient persisted with fever and elevated liver enzymes as well as CRP.
These clinical data, together with the findings found in the chest CT, supported the diagnosis of eosinophilic pneumonia caused by drugs. The responsible agent was daptomycin, which was prescribed for every six days.
Upon discharge, the patient was hemodynamically stable with good basal▁ganglia and without dyspnea.
Liver enzymes and CRP were normalized.
In the follow-up visit one month after discharge with progressive steroid decrease, the patient was stable and without respiratory symptoms, the control chest CT showed multiple foci of consolidation with air bronchogram, ground glass areas and some right CT.
The control CT scan performed three months after discharge showed no areas of ground glass or slurry, and CT was normal except for paraseptal emphysema.
Final diagnosis Severe pulmonary toxicity due to Daptomycin (probable eosinophilic pneumonia) in a patient with early aortic endocarditis due to multiresistant S. epidermis.
