A 27-year-old woman presented with intense asthenia, anorexia, weight loss and fever for two weeks.
She denies insect bites, exotic trips, or risky sexual intercourse.
A year ago she was admitted with similar symptoms, which resolved spontaneously without becoming a member.
She presented hypochromatic microcytic anemia, which was treated with oral iron without improvement.
On examination TA 90/55 mmHg, HR 104 bpm, Ta 38.5oC.
Adenoptic plaque not adhered to deep, non-erythematous or hot planes, with periadenopathic blando component in the left subaxillary region and multiple erythematous, edematous trunk and upper extremities in face.
Normal rectum.
▁Complementary tests in the emergency room: hypochromic microcytic anemia (Hb 9.6 g/dl), leukocytes 7260/μl,▁lymphopenia (700/μl) and CRP mg/dl.
Liver and kidney function (including urine) were normal.
Chest X-ray showed no abnormalities.
HIV rapid test negative.
She's admitted for study.
On the floor, the study is extended.
Leukocytosis with marked▁lymphopenia, decreased CD3, CD8, NKCD56 and CD19 lymphocytes.
Antinuclear antibodies + >1/640, with mottled pattern.
Rheumatoid factor 681 IU/ml.
IgG 2630 mg/dl.
Anti-SSA/Ro, anti-RNP/Sm and anti-Sm positive antibodies.
Anti-SSB/La and ANCAs were negative.
Serology: CMV IgM+.
Quantification of negative CMV copies.
Quantiferon, EBV, Leishmania, Mycoplasma, Rosa de Bengala and treponemic screening negative.
Later 2500 leukocytes: neutropenia and▁lymphopenia.
Initially treated with ceftriaxone.
It continues with feverish peaks and increases skin lesions.
A dose of gastrointestinal intolerance is administered and suspended.
A skin biopsy of one of the▁papular lesions was performed, which showed necrotic▁keratinocytes associated with perivascular and interstitial tumoral▁lymphocytic inflammatory infiltrate without neutrophils or▁eosinophils.
CT scan revealed an axillary lymph node adjacent to the breastbone; mild hepatomegaly; mild pleural effusion; and thickening of the interlocute septa;
Asymmetry in the muscles of the left chest wall with bands of liquid in subcutaneous and intermuscular planes.
Biopsy revealed a rib adenopathy: multifocal necrotizing lymphadenitis not suppurated, with predominance of CD3/CD8+ T lymphocytes, presence of B-granuloma positive cells and histiocytes compatible with CD68+
Pathogenic cells and Reed-Sternberg absence.
Negative EBV stains.
The patient improves without antibiotics, yielding fever and passing▁papules to smaller maculae.
Adenopathies go away.
The patient was diagnosed with Kikuchi disease, cutaneous involvement and lupus criteria.
