Anamnesis A 53-year-old male, businessman, with no known drug allergies or toxic habits.
He went to our consultation with his wife.
He was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis with ocular and bulbar involvement of 20 years of evolution, thymectomy and treatment with azathioprine 100 mg a day and pyridostigmine 180 mg a day.
He did not follow routine neurology controls.
The patient presented generalized pruritic skin lesions of two days of evolution accompanied by intense sharp pain of the stabbing and burning type in the right parietal-temporal region.
The patient complained of right ear pain for 5 days, so his primary care physician, when observing a certain erythema in the external auditory canal, had prescribed ciprofloxacin drops through a possible external ear catheter.
He also explained that he had been going through a period of stress for a few months due to work problems.
Physical examination The patient was conscious, oriented, normocolored and normohydrated.
A disseminated cutaneous eruption was observed, formed by multiple erythematous▁papules, some vesiculous▁papules and others in the crust phase that he related to the application of ear drops.
They were distributed in both trunk and extremities.
There was no involvement of mucous membranes, palms or soles.
In addition, in the right temporal region, a large necrotic plaque with smaller satellite lesions was observed.
The rest of the physical examination was normal.
▁Complementary laboratory tests showed megalobic anaemia (hemoglobin 9.6 g/ dl and mean corpuscular volume 124), coagulation, renal and hepatic function and electrolytes in normal range.
In addition, a chest X-ray showed a bilateral interstitial pattern suggestive of pneumonia.
Clinical diagnosis compatible with disseminated right temporal herpes zoster in an immunosuppressed patient by chronic azathioprine intake.
In addition, secondary variceal pneumonia and anemia caused by azathioprine were diagnosed.
Treatment The patient was admitted (isolation) and started treatment with intravenous azithromycin during 10 mg/kg every 8 hours, analgesia with paracetamol, nolotil and pregabalin, and topical lesions with zinc capsulphate 2 minutes.
The patient was admitted for a week with good evolution and complete antiviral treatment.
At discharge, the lesions were in the crusting phase and the neuropatic pain was controlled with the guided analgesia.
The control chest X-ray showed no abnormalities, and pneumonia resolved.
The patient was referred to the Neurology outpatient clinic for control of his underlying disease.
