Anamnesis A 25-year-old woman, with no drug allergies, ex-smoker for a year, with chronic iron deficiency anemia of unknown cause diagnosed in 2008, treated with oral iron, infectious migraine in 2010 since 17 years.
She was admitted to the emergency room with fever of up to 40 oC of one week duration and left lumbar pain in the last 48 hours, accompanied by vomiting and diarrhea, with no other accompanying symptoms.
The patient was admitted to the Internal Medicine Department for study and follow-up of fever.
Physical aspects Regular general condition.
Colourless and normohydrated.
Temperature of 38 oC, blood pressure 110/60, heart rate 99 bpm.
Heart attack without murmurs.
The vesicular eruption of the lungs was conserved, without crackles.
The abdomen was blandom and depressible, without defense, with conserved peristalsis and positive left renal percussion.
No neurological focus.
No significant lymphadenopathies.
No skin lesions.
▁Complementary tests • Analytically, there is an absolute▁lymphopenia with activated lymphocytes (also known in the patient) in the blood test at admission and microhematuria in urine.
• Chest X-ray: no pathological findings.
• Echocardiogram: the presence of endocarditis is ruled out.
• Abdominal computed tomography (CT): left kidney with edematous appearance with presence of inflammatory changes due to complicated acute pyelonephritis, causing ischemia and the appearance of segmental renal infarction.
• Abdominal ultrasound: infarction in the upper and lower pole of the left kidney.
• Hemocultive and urocultive: negative.
• Serology: IgM CMV positive, IgG EBV positive, IgM negative, HAV negative, HBV negative, HCV negative, HIV negative, PCR CMV negative in plasma.
Diagnosis Kidney infarction secondary to a clinical picture of complicated acute pyelonephritis.
Think of ruling out primary immunodeficiency.
Treatment Dietary abundant fluid and antibiotic therapy with piperacillin-tazodone and amikacin.
The diagnosis of neutropenic fever was established, and treatment with piperacillin-tazo and amikacin was initiated, with a dose of c-GSF administered intravenously, with good clinical response.
After clinical improvement and after confirmation of the presence of renal infarction secondary to complicated acute pyelonephritis, the Urology Department was informed, indicating follow-up with CT control on an outpatient basis.
Upon discharge, the patient remains in good general condition, afflicted with stable condition, with good clinical and analytical constants, maintaining her already known iron deficiency anemia.
The patient was evaluated 3 months after discharge from the Urology Outpatient Clinic, with a control CT scan that reported heterogeneous left renal perfusion with centric areas in the upper and lower pole of the left kidney.
Analytically, it shows normal renal function.
The patient reported no symptoms.
Pending new date.
