Consultation cough.
Individual Approach (anamnesis, exploration, complementary tests) Personal Background: - Possible allergy to metamizole, NSAIDS, and non-documented clavulanic acid.
- Toxic habits: Ex-smoker until 2004.
- Cardiovascular risk factors: Hypertension in treatment with fertilisation and furosemide.
- GOLD stage B COPD.
- Chronic kidney disease stage 4.
Cholestasis of colon treated with right hemicolectomy in 2007.
High grade papillary urothelial carcinoma, operated by TUR in 2012.
Since then, permanent bladder catheterization.
Recurrent episodes of urinary sepsis.
Local recurrence.
- parent proxy holder without interest.
- Usual treatment: Omeprazole 20mg every 24 hours, Furosemide 40mg every 24 hours, Amcelo consolidation 5dol every 24 hours, Atmolida si 8 hours, Budeson every 12 hours
Physical location: 87 years.
Acceptable general condition.
Aware, oriented and collaborating.
Well hydrated and infused.
Eye disorders:
Eupneic at rest and speech
Afebril.
He suffered from his health condition since his last admission because he had suffered a significant deterioration.
Acceptable pain control.
Cardiorespiratory arrest: rhythmic tones, without murmurs at good frequency.
Vesicular mucus preserved with noises transmitted from highways without other audible noises.
Globulous abdomen, blandom and depressible, slightly painful to the hypogastric tenderness, without defense or other signs of peritonitis.
No masses or enlargements.
Do not ascites.
Lower limbs showed no edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Family and Community Approach The patient lives with a caregiver and has 8 children who will visit him frequently.
There is no agreement among their children regarding patient care, since not all have▁assimilated the prognosis of their disease in the same way.
The patient had a last admission 1 month ago for urinary sepsis.
Since discharge, we have scheduled home visits every 2 days due to the high comorbidity it has, and the presence of frequent pyuria each time an antibiotic cycle is completed, to prevent new complications.
The patient had deteriorated after admission but had an acceptable quality of life and remained clinically stable.
His family was very demanding in terms of the patient's medical care.
Clinical Judgment (list of problems, referential diagnosis) Upper respiratory tract infection.
Plan of action We started treatment with acetylcysteine and paracetamol, in addition to maintaining their inhalers.
We reassessed the patient the next day because we warn one of her daughters by telephone for lack of improvement.
When we came to assess it, we did not find changes with respect to the previous day.
She's still without fever.
The patient arrives at the emergency room the next morning after our second visit, with fever, and his family decides to take him to the hospital for evaluation.
There they do several complementary tests.
The laboratory tests detected Hb 11.5 g/dl; Leucco 20000; Neutrophils 94%; Platelets 52 mEq/L Creatinine 4.895 mg/dl; Urea 120 mg/dl;
A chest X-ray showed condensation in the upper third of the right hemithorax.
The PCR of influenza A and B was negative findings; the patient was diagnosed with community-acquired pneumonia and was admitted to the observation area.
The patient had a poor evolution during the next 24 hours at admission, with progressive decrease in the level of consciousness and increase in respiratory work.
They informed the family of a poor short-term prognosis and finally died.
The next day, a daughter gives us the appointment to give us news.
He was angry and▁reproached us for not having noticed us before the picture.
Let us examine our▁malaise for the evolution and try to understand the situation.
However, we could not avoid getting very badly felt because of the extensive attention and dedication we had with the patient when necessary.
