Background, current disease and physical examination A 54-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, without known allergies.
Home treatment with insulin Lantus 24 IU/24h and fast 4 IU/8h, losartan 100 mg/24h.
She came to the emergency room due to a sensation of numbness in the right upper limb (UL) the night before, and when she awakened, she was unable to move.
He denies other symptoms.
Aware, oriented, alert.
Normal language
Normal MOE.
Normal cranial nerves.
Paresia in MSD 3/5 and mild hypoesthesia.
Rhythmic cardiac tones without murmurs.
MV preserved without added noises.
No lower limb edema.
Normal rectum.
▁Complementary tests Analytical: normal blood count, normal coagulation.
Biochemistry with G 123 mg/ dl, Cr 1 mg/dl.
Coles 192 mg/dl, LDL 133 mg/dl, TG 97 mg/dl.
Normal rectum.
ECG: sinus rhythm at 54 bpm, normal axis, with no changes in repolarization.
Cranial CT: ischemic lesion in the posteriormost portion of the left parietal lobe.
There is another hypodense image of ischemic frontal lobe malformation.
No other relevant findings.
TSA Doppler ultrasound: waveform of paretic tardus at ICA level in disagreement with the B-mode and color view, which may be related to stenosis, so MR angiography is recommended
TSA angio-MRI: there are no data of significant stenosis in the carotid bulbs or internal or external carotid arteries of both sides.
Arbitration and pervious vertebral.
Brain MRI: several lesions in the territory of left MCA with diffusion restriction, corresponding to acute ischemic lesions of probable embolic origin.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: aI 35.9 mm and Ao 32 mm.
LV systolic function was preserved with a 64% LVEF.
Ventricular fibrillation with a pattern of impaired relaxation.
Light LVH.
SSF was injected intravenously peripherally and no bubbles were observed through the atrial septum suggestive of PFO.
Clinical manifestations: The patient recovers muscle strength, but presents hypoesthesia in the right arm that is mild.
The patient was discharged with a diagnosis of left frontal and cerebral infarction of non-parietal nature; under treatment with Adiro 300 mg/24h and atorvastatin 80 mg/24h.
The patient was readmitted after 8 months due to vertigo, vomiting, dysarthria and gait instability, as well as horizontal nystagmus to the left, which in a craneal CT also showed a new lesion compatible with previous infarction.
A normal cardiac study was performed and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was scheduled.
She was discharged with a diagnosis of cryptogenic left cerebellar ischemic stroke, and treatment with Sintrom with withdrawal of Adiro.
A TEE was performed, which was reported as no cavity dilation.
Atrial septal thinning at the foramen ovale level without macroscopic detachment and no abnormalities in mobility, with no signs of shunting with color Doppler.
Ultrasound contrast-enhanced tapered solution was performed both at baseline and after the Valsalva maneuver.
An early passage of microbubbles to the left cavities is observed after Valsalva maneuver.
The patient has remained stable during follow-up and has no new cardioembolic events.
Diagnosis Patent foramen ovale Recurrent cryptogenic ischemic stroke
