The patient was referred to Cardiology from Neurology for evaluation.
Background, current disease and physical examination Family history: Madre with tongue plug without facial paralysis.
Two brothers and two nephews with Steinert syndrome.
Two healthy children.
Current history: The patient presents new electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormalities consisting of PR of 280 milliseconds (msg), QRS of 150 msg, with image of complete left bundle branch block (LBBB).
Electrocardiogram two years earlier showed no abnormalities in conduction.
She was assessed in outpatient cardiology clinics and received a prescription for implantation of medication.
The patient denied syncope, episodes or other symptoms.
Additional tests • ECG on admission: Sinus rhythm at 75 bpm.
PR 240-280 msg.
QRS 150 msg.
▁ESTABLISHMENT
• EKG in 2010 Neurology Department: Sinus rhythm at 70 bpm.
PR 180-200 msg.
QRS 80 msg.
No alterations in the intraventricular conduction.
• Analytical: Glucose, normal renal function.
No anemia or leukopenia.
Platelet count of 84,000 platelets mm3.
• Transthoracic echocardiography: Left ventricular non-dilated or hypertrophic.
Left atrial fibrillation.
Mitral valve of thin, non-thickened leaflets with central slight insufficiency jet.
Mitral filling pattern with E>A wave.
Aortic valve was trivalvular with adequate opening and closing.
Aortic root and ascending aorta of normal size.
Left ventricular ejection fraction preserved without segmental▁contractility defects.
Normal right cavities in size and function
Mild tricuspid insufficiency directed medially with atrioventricular gradient of 17 mmHg, which allows estimating a pulmonary arterial pressure of 30 mmHg.
Trivial lung failure.
Non-colapse vena cava.
No pericardial effusion.
• Chest X-ray: Cardiac silhouette within normal limits without changes in lung parenchyma.
No pleural effusion.
Clinical manifestations The patient was admitted in a programmed fashion for implantation of a pacemaker due to appearance on the ECG of conduction abnormalities that were not previously present without being associated with structural heart disease.
Diagnosis of Steinert's disease with conduction disturbances, which would be candidates for definitive stimulation.
