This is a 24-year-old woman with Diabetes Mellitus type 1 (DMF).
She was diagnosed with diabetes four years after metabolic syndrome, had extrinsic bronchial asthma (which controlled with immunotherapy) and had no chronic complications related to diabetes.
He had good metabolic control until puberty, but since then he has had several admissions for diabetic ketoatosis and a poor chronic metabolic control (HbA1c=11.8.)
Two years ago, continuous subcutaneous insulin pump infusion was started with improved metabolic control (HbA1c=8.2).
However, a few months later, the patient was again admitted with ketoacidosis.
On this occasion, the clinical picture was accompanied by▁malaise, abdominal pain and fever.
On admission, an increase in acute phase reactants and a typical analytical pattern of stasis were observed.
A chest X-ray and an abdominal ultrasound were requested and the urine sediment was normal.
Blood cultures were positive for Gram-negative germs and antibiotic treatment was started adjusted according to the antibiogram.
The suspicion of acute cholangitis was requested a cholangioonance that reported an anatomical variant of the cystic without being clear if this anomaly justified the clinic.
The patient became infected with feverish peaks and hemocultives persistently positive for different Gram negative germs increasingly resistant to antibiotics.
During this time, the metabolic control was very irregular, despite treatment with intravenous insulin in continuous infusion, requiring insulin doses ranging from 15 to 90 units per day and alternating with prolonged episodes of hyperglycaemia
Therefore, it was decided to perform an exploratory laparotomy with cholecystectomy, whose pathological study showed mild inflammation of biliary ducts, which could be related to a liver of sepsis or acute cholangitis.
After the intervention the patient improved the mental status for a week and metabolic control, but after this time new fever peaks with positive blood cultures were presented.
The following tests were performed, all of them with no pathology objective: CT scan of the skull, abdominal transit, gastroscopy and gastrointestinal biopsy, scintigraphy with gallium, echocardiography and reflux▁esophagography.
After this the clinical picture resolved spontaneously and the patient was discharged with the diagnosis of bacteremia of non-related origin.
Three months later, the patient presented a new episode of ketoacidosis, this time without accompanying infectious symptoms.
The patient denied insulin omission or dietary transgression.
However, upon unloading the insulin pump data, we observed several irregularities.
( bolus and basal omission, administration of nocturnal bolus).
During admission, the patient again presented a very irregular metabolic control, with great variations in plasma glucose levels, despite insulin treatment noncompliance, which led to the decision to transfer to another reference hospital.
At this center, the patient remains with poor glycemic control alternating episodes of ketoatosis with deep and prolonged hypoglycemia due to the diagnosis of Diabetes Mellitus and undergoes pancreas transplant.
Forty-eight hours after surgery, a transplantectomy is necessary, after thrombosis of the splenic vein and graft necrosis.
Currently, the patient is being treated with continuous subcutaneous insulin by infusion pump, persists with poor metabolic control (HbA1c=10.9), three admissions for simultaneous vaginal ecchymosis and hemomentives have presented positive last 6 months, one of them
