A 66-year-old patient presented to the emergency department with a clinical picture of approximately 4-5 days of uncontrollable hiccups, accompanied by nausea without vomiting and asthenia, and loss of about 8 kg of weight in the last month.
As the only personal ancestor, he was treated with enalapril 20 mg. Natural of Equatorial Guinea.
He has been in Spain for 20 years.
She hasn't had malaria and has never taken quinine.
Work in cleaning the metro.
Physical location: LGA.
Black reason.
Unconsciousness.
Continued hypoacusis in all exploration with pain upon fixation of the epigastrium, without irradiation or signs of peritoneal irritation.
▁Complementary tests: ECG, chest and abdominal X-rays were unremarkable.
Analytical: CRP 22.5 mg/dL, Bil 1.73 mg/dL, Na 128 mEq/L, GPT 200U/L, GGT 241U/L, LDH 670 gCM/L normal, Hb 139 85.58%
Sepsis is defined as:
Associated analytical findings were requested Coombs and serology for Paul Bunnell.
Three hours after the administration of medication, the patient continues to present hiccups, so the prescription of chlorprom is indicated without improvement.
While we have the analytical results where Paul Bunnell appears negative and direct Coombs positive.
Provisional judgement: A clinical picture compatible with hemolytic anemia with microhematuria-proteinuria and mild thrombopenia (to rule out Evans syndrome), hypertransaminasemia and hyperbilirubinemia resistant to the previous treatment.
Plan: We decided to admit the patient, requesting laboratory tests with serology, iron study to locate the origin of hemolytic anemia (CMV, HIV, hepatitis, Leishmania, malaria and syphilis) and basic analytical control.
As the patient goes up to the plant, he has two fever peaks of 39oC, which when lowering the Ta the patient improves the hiccups.
Pathologist confirms that Coombs is a false positive result from anti-body allergic reaction without schistoocytes or other hemolysis data.
Abdominal pain begins with selective pain in the right hypochondrium, performing abdominal ECHO where hepatosplenic enlargement and 3 hepatic cysts are observed.
After 24 h of admission: positive results for Leishmania, so treatment with liposomal amphotericin B is started and bone marrow aspirate is observed massive intra and extracellular Leishmania.
▁Definitive jurisdiction: visceral leishmaniasis and hypo in relation to dysthermia.
