A 45-year-old man with a history of severe smoking, severe obesity (BMI), and multiple disc herniation.
The patient presented with a high fever, so blood samples were taken and fever appeared two days later, in the left lower limb.
Hemocultives indicate the presence of S. aureus resistant to cloxacillin (the first drug that was discontinued) so it is treated with vancomycin.
Transthoracic echocardiography revealed the presence of vegetation types in the aortic valve.
In addition, the patient has abdominal pain leading to ultrasound that indicates the presence of splenic infarctions and one renal.
Valve replacement was scheduled one week after the onset of symptoms and gentamicin was administered for treatment.
The day before surgery (day 6 with antibiotic treatment) it was decided to re-adjust treatment by removing vancomycin and adding daptomycin at a dose of 3.5mg/kg/day (this is, at this time, the patient is being treated with gentamicin).
After presenting an adequate evolution, the patient restarted with fever and abdominal tomography was performed to identify splenic abscesses.
The largest ultrasound-guided drainage was performed, obtaining samples for culture in which Serratia marcescens was isolated.
The patient again presented an adequate evolution until after 21 days of treatment began with fever, dyspnea and chest pain. A CT scan was performed which described a ground glass pulmonary infiltrate in the upper lobe patched upper lobe, greater left lobe.
Four days later, the patient presented greater dyspnea and respiratory failure, which did not improve with medication.
Chest X-rays showed an interstitial pattern consistent with the findings observed in the previous day CT. Bronchoscopy was requested and bronchoalveolar lavage was performed, indicating polymorphous inflammatory cellularity 10% with slightly more▁eosinophils.
On the other hand, we also observed an exponential increase in the numbers of▁eosinophils in blood at these times.
Because of this, daptomycin was withdrawn and corticosteroid treatment was initiated, resulting in improvement.
