Anamnesis A 54-year-old male, ex-smoker, hypertensive and dyslipemic, with no other relevant history, who presented with sudden binocular diplopia and intense sensation in the lower limbs irradiating the lower limbs.
Subsequently, it is associated with loss of strength in the lower limbs that progresses in one month until it prevents walking.
He was admitted to hospital and 48 hours later he presented right hemifacial muscle paralysis.
The patient reported progressive increase of the right hemiscrotum in the last weeks.
No sphincter alteration.
He did not refer constitutional syndrome or other symptoms.
Establishment of the right atrium and systemic consolidation: increase in testicle consistency.
Neurological manifestations: left ptosis.
Symmetrical and normoreactive hairs.
Paresis of the medial rectus and inferior left eye.
Compatible with incomplete paresis of the third left cranial nerve.
Peripheral right facial palsy.
Lower limb paresis, with 3-4/5 balance both proximally and distally, with greater weakness of the right lower limb.
Hypotonia and areflexia of the lower limbs.
Cutaneous-plantar bilateral flexor contracture.
Tactogeneic hypoesthesia of the posterior thigh, and the right floor of the thigh.
Decreased posicional and vibratory sensitivity in the lower limbs, the latter with L2 level.
Normal rectum.
▁Complementary tests • Analytical: CRP 1.58, LDH 690 IU/l, GGT 96 U/l.
Chorionic gonadotropin beta-2 subunit, alpha-fetoprotein, CEA, PSA and urine test were normal.
Normal rectum.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study: leukocytes 10/mcl; proteins 160 mg/dl; glucose 55 mg/dl; LDH 50 IU/l; ADA 4.8 IU/l
▁Cytology first negative puncture.
Second puncture: leukocytes 52/mcl (7.2% of B lymphocytes lambda +).
• Immunological study (including anthioneuronals): negative.
• Microbiological study: HIV, syphilis, hepatotropic virus, Brucella negative.
• Positive Mantoux (18 mm).
• EMG: polyarthritis mild axonal neuropathy in the upper limbs and moderate-severe in the lower limbs, with greater left neurophysiological signs and predominance of bilateral L5-S1 levels, motor impairment of the lower limbs
Cranial nerve palsy
• MRI of the brain and complete spine with gadolinium: thickened roots and enhancement predominantly sacral; lesions in the vertebral bodies D10, D11 and S2.
▁Right facial nerve enhancement
• Testicular ultrasound: enlarged and diffuse heterogeneous echogenicity of both testicles and epididymis, more marked on the right side.
• Testicular biopsy:▁lymphoid proliferation composed of large cells with karyocytoplasmic atypia and frequent mitosis.
IHC: CD20 +, CD10 –, MUM1 +, BCL2 +, BCL6 +, CD30 –.
Proliferative index (Ki-67) 98%.
Molecular study: clonal rearrangement of the IgH gene.
• PET/CT: hypercapsular lesions in the pulmonary artery root, kidneys, adrenal glands, testicles,▁vertebrae D11 and S2 and sacral roots of the horsetail.
Diagnosis A 54-year-old male with low back pain and progressive subacute paraparesis, sequential involvement of several cranial nerves and increased right hemiscrotum.
The topographical distribution of paresis and the role of pain suggest a subacute lumbosacral polyneuropathy as a syndromic diagnosis.
The etiological diagnosis includes the following options: 1) tumor due to sarcoidosis (e.g., lymphoma), less likely to occur; 2) solid tumour; 2) granulomatous vasculitis (a sarcoidosis), sensitive, pan-teroid syndrome; 3)
Magnetic resonance imaging of the spine showed a striking thickening and enhancement of the sacral medullary roots suggestive of a pathological condition.
Coronal section of magnetic resonance imaging of the spine after gadolinium.
Diffuse thickening and enhancement of lumbosacral roots.
Axial section of the magnetic resonance imaging of the spine after gadolinium.
Diffuse thickening and enhancement of lumbosacral roots.
Testicular ultrasound showed diffuse in both testicles, predominantly the right.
Testicular biopsy confirmed the presence of primary large testicular B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).
Despite the negativity of the first cytology, a second lumbar puncture showed the presence of neoplasic B lymphocytes in CSF.
PET/CT showed renal, adrenal and bone extension and sacral root uptake and both tests.
diagnosis: 1) polyarthritis lumbosacra polyneuropathy and cranial multineuropathy due to lymphomatous invasion (neurolymphomatosis).
2) Stage IV A non-Hodgkin B-cell lymphoma. Treatment: Polychemotherapy was initiated with intravenous cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vincristine, prednisone and rituximab (CHOP-R) combined with intrathecal corticosteroids and chemotherapy.
Ev.▁~~~ Recipient exhibited 6 CHOP-R cycles, with decreased testicular volume, negative CSF cytology, and improved LL strength.
Subsequently, she received additional cycles, bone marrow autotransplantation and testicular radiotherapy.
Currently, it remains clinically stable and there is no evidence of leptomeningeal disease.
