Background Female, 51 years old.
Hypertrichosis
Chronic glaucoma.
No known allergies.
No toxic habits.
Treatment with telmisartan 80 mg/day.
Active baseline.
Independent for activities of daily living.
Moderate effort dyspnea (NHYA II).
Current illness Go to your family doctor for moderate dyspnea for about 3 months.
Since then she also has edemas in the lower limbs.
She did not report previous history of chest pain or chest pain episodes.
A chest X-ray was performed and in the presence of cardiomegaly a preferential evaluation was requested in the Cardiology Outpatient Clinic.
Physical location AT: 130/90 mmHg HR: 77 bpm SatO2: 98% Head and normal neck.
No sinus arrest was observed. Patient had normal sinus rhythm, sudden cardiac arrest, left ventricular ejection fraction and left ventricular ejection fraction < 150 beats/min.
Echocardiography: severe dilation of the right cavities.
Apical displacement of the insertion point of the tricuspid septal cusp velum (2.5 cm above the mitral annulus plane).
IT massive due to lack of coaptation of veils.
The assessment of RV systolic function is marked by severe but impressive impairment.
The pulmonary trunk is of normal size.
The pulmonary valve has no abnormalities.
The left cavities are small and are displaced through the right cavities.
The LV systolic function is visually at the lower limit of normality.
Left valves are normal.
Mitral filling pattern impaired relaxation.
No ASD (although the assessment is difficult) or other shunts were detected.
Normal aortic arch.
It digests systemic venous congestion.
EVOLUTION 40 mg/day furosemide is added to the treatment, cardiac magnetic resonance is requested for anatomical characterization and better evaluation of RV function.
At the 6-month follow-up, the patient is asymptomatic.
The result of cardiac MRI was very poor technical quality (movement artifacts).
â–Right chamber dilation, with apical displacement of the tricuspid leaflets, which do not coap.
Free tricuspid regurgitation.
RVEF 43%.
No associated malformations were observed.
Left ventricle was displaced by the right ventricle with preserved ventricular function.
Given the improvement of symptoms, it was decided to maintain medical treatment and outpatient control at 6 months with new echocardiography, new MRI and cardiopulmonary stress test.
DIAGNOSIS Mild onset cardiac failure severe tricuspid regurgitation and mild systolic dysfunction RV
