A 66-year-old man, who had traveled to Uruguay 15 years prior to his admission, lived in a rural habitat with eucalyptus trees within a few meters of his home, and had no history of contact with exotic birds.
He had been diagnosed with silicosis and 4 months before admission with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), received corticosteroids intermittently.
The patient complained of severe frontal-temporal headache.
Physical examination revealed a gait with increased base of support and significant instability.
The eye fundus showed bilateral papilledema.
Treatment was initiated with intravenous steroid pulses, mannitol and acetazolamide.
Brain computed tomography showed bilateral basal▁ganglia calcifications.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MR angiography showed no significant changes.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed an output pressure of 17.5 cm/H2O, 63 cells/μL (98 mononuclear and 1% polymorphonuclear).
Cryptococcus spp. was isolated from CSF.
The strain was sent to the Mental Health Service of the National Microbiology Center for definitive identification and susceptibility testing.
The determination of Cryptococcus antigen in blood was 1/512 and in CSF was 1/128.
Treatment was initiated with amphotericin B at doses of 0.7-1 mg/kg/day and 5-fluorocytosine for 14 days, followed by fluconazole 400 mg/day.
In the National Center of Microbiology, the strain was identified by morphological tests and biochemical studies.
The microorganism showed characteristics compatible with those of C. neoformans.
It was also able to hydrolyze glycine and to be resistant to L-canavanine, so it was identified as C. gattii.
This identification was confirmed by fungal DNA sequencing techniques, specifically ITS (Transcribing riber Spacers) zones.
Sequencing was performed using reference techniques including control strains.
Sensitivity studies were also performed using standardized methods.
Initially the clinical course was favorable.
Fifteen days after switching to fluconazole, the headache recurred, when the strain was identified as C. gattii.
Susceptibility study showed minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of 0.12 mg/l of amphotericin B, 128 mg/l of fluconazole, 0.50 mg/l of itraconazole, 1 mg/l of voriconazole and 16 mg/l of
10 mg/day of elevated CSF outflow pressures, continuous detection of Cryptococcus-compatible microorganisms in CSF examinations with Chinese ink and maintenance of high cryptococcal antigen titers was decided to increase.
Voriconazole at a dose of 400 mg/day was then associated and finally voriconazole at a dose of 800 mg/day was administered orally.
The clinical symptoms disappeared, although a shunt was placed in the peritoneal ventricle.
Finally, the patient died due to an episode of respiratory failure, while enjoying a home leave, without knowing the cause of his death.
