Anamnesis A 26-year-old woman, 11 weeks pregnant, who consulted the emergency department of▁dermatology for presenting, for 4 days, painful punctiform lesions of sudden appearance on the tip of her fingers.
The patient reported that the lesions began on the fingers of the hands, extending posteriorly to the toes.
Acquired joint discomfort.
Days before the appearance of the lesions he presented fever that remitted in 24 hours with paracetamol.
After the development of the cutaneous condition, fever has not recurred.
There are no other associated symptoms.
The patient had a history of only cold urticaria.
She has no history of photosensitivity.
Physical examination revealed erythematous punctiform▁papules, some with non-palpable puricles, which did not disappear at fingerprint, but were well defined in distally cut areas located in pulp.
Nails without alterations.
Normal colored and normoperfused hands and feet.
▁Complementary findings At first, the patient had vasculitis, and peripheral blood tests were performed, with no abnormalities except elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (22 mm, reference values 7-15 mm).
The markers of immunity, ANA and▁cryoagglutinins were negative, HBV serology indicated only vaccination.
A 3 mm punch skin biopsy was performed, in which only hyperkeratosis, parakeratosis and chronic perivascular inflammatory infiltrate in the superficial dermis were observed.
Based on these results, the diagnosis of vasculitis was ruled out, because when rash on gloves and calcetin was suspected, the diagnosis of Ebstein virus and human enterovirus B19 was performed.
The serologá for Parvovirus B19 was IgM positive on two separate occasions one week apart.
Diagnosis: Glove rash and caletin by parvovirus B19.
Treatment Non-hours acetaminophen 1 g every 8
Treatment with ASA 100 mg every 24 hours was initiated by the gynecologists.
First episode, lesions were compatible with the development of vasculitis.
Analytical markers, negative for autoimmunity and▁cryoagglutinins, guided the diagnosis towards an infectious exanthema:▁papulopurpuric rash in gloves and calcetin.
The suspicion of an infectious condition of these characteristics was requested serology for EBV, enterovirus and parvovirus B19, IgM being positive for the latter on two occasions.
As this is a pregnant patient, we contacted the gynecology unit, starting the gyneco-obstetric follow-up for high-risk patients.
In the successive gynecological revisions, the patient had not developed anemia or other clinical manifestations of acute Parvovirus infection.
There were no signs of fetal anemia or complications.
