Anamnesis A 27-year-old male with a history of superficial venous thrombosis in the lower limbs in July 2011, under treatment with low molecular weight heparin for three months, suspended after completing the etiological study with normal results.
No other relevant medical history.
He came to the emergency department with a clinical picture of headache of mild onset, periocular involvement and oppressive quality, progressing in days to continuous, deep and generalized pain, which did not interfere with the nighttime efforts.
Physical examination: Good general condition, 37.5 oC, normotensive, eupneic.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal.
Abdomen and extremities without pathological findings.
Neurological collaboration: conscious, oriented and cooperative.
Language and upper functions were preserved.
Symmetric carotid arteries without murmurs.
Normal cranial nerves.
Force, sensitivity, tone and reflexes without alterations. Normal marking.
Normal eye fund.
Negative meningeal signs.
▁Complementary tests • Blood count, biochemistry and hemostasis were performed in the Emergency Department and a chest X-ray showed no pathological data.
• The study was completed with a cranial computed tomography (CT), which was reported as normal.
• Cerebrospinal fluid biochemistry showed no abnormal data, although opening pressure during lumbar puncture was not determined.
Treatment and evolution After initiating treatment with conventional analgesia the symptoms subsided, so it was decided to discharge him, with relative rest and symptomatic treatment.
After two weeks of mild pain persisting with little functional repercussion, the clinical picture worsened, with headache and vomiting and neck pain appearing, reason why he returned to the Emergency Department.
The patient continued with good general condition, physical examination (including eye fundus) and laboratory tests were again normal, and a second cranial CT scan was performed, which was reported as normal.
The clinical signs and the normality of the tests performed were requested the evaluation by the Neurology Service, which performed a new lumbar puncture and analyzed the opening pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid.
Biochemical analysis showed no increase of cells and proteins and the glucorrhachia was normal, while the opening pressure was 42 cm H2O (normal values of 7 to 18 cm H2O).
Presence of intracranial hypertension precluded thrombosis of cerebral venous sinuses as the etiologic cause of it, so an urgent CT angiography was performed in the venous phase, which confirmed the diagnosis.
CT angiography in venous phase.
A repletion defect in the left internal jugular vein was observed.
A delta or empty triangle sign is observed in the confluence of the venous sinuses.
He showed extensive thrombosis in the left transverse sinus extending to the sigmoid sinus, left jugular vein to the confluence with the left▁subclavian vein, right transverse and sigmoid brachiocephalic trunk.
With the diagnosis of massive cerebral venous sinus thrombosis with secondary intracranial hypertension, anticoagulant treatment with sodium heparin was initiated to maintain an activated partial thromboplastin time of 1.5 to 2 times its value, followed by analgesia at a rate of 1.5%.
During admission, the etiological study of proband states was completed.
An analytical study was performed with the study of immunity (anti-lipantagonist extramíble nuclear immunodeficiency, ANOvirus, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, rheumatoid factor, anticardioin antibodies, serovar antibody.
To rule out a neoplasic origin, a CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis and a testicular ultrasound were performed.
To date, no secondary cause of thrombophilia has been demonstrated in our patient.
After clinical improvement and the achievement of an adequate range of anticoagulation, the patient left the hospital.
Three weeks after discharge, a cranial MRI with angioresonance was performed, in which a signal alteration persisted in the left transverse-sigmoid-jugular bulb administration of the same partial transverse-sigmoid sinus, with partial visualization.
No areas of established venous infarction were observed.
The patient continues to have a normal life.
