A 54-year-old male smoker with a history of obesity, dyslipidemia, ischemic heart disease and intermittent claudication.
She underwent vascular surgery with right iliofemoral bypass, with placement of a Dacron vascular prosthesis for critical stenosis of the iliac artery.
In the immediate postoperative period she presented fever accompanied by erythema, edema and seropurulent▁exudate through the surgical wound.
The patient had leukocytosis (12600/mm3) and elevated CRP (425 mg/L).
Blood cultures were negative.
An emergency CT scan was performed 24 hours after the intervention, which revealed a fluid collection and gas in the abdominal wall fixed to the emergency prosthesis, which could correspond to postsurgical changes.
In the culture of▁exudate from the surgical wound, Staphylococcus aureus sensitive to challenge was isolated.
suspected deep infection of the surgical wound treatment was initiated with intravenous cloxacillin 2g every 6 hours for two weeks, changing to discharge by levofloxacin 750 mg/24h plus oral administration completing 2 weeks
The patient had a good evolution of the symptoms and the fever disappeared.
Differential diagnosis The appearance of a seropurulent▁exudate through a surgical wound raises the differential diagnosis between several entities.
On the one hand, the possibility of facing a non-infectious process such as post-surgical serous▁exudate that may exist in certain cases should always be taken into account.
The fact that the patient presented fever, elevated acute phase reactants and isolation of S. aureus in the▁exudate leads us to think that this is an infection of the surgical bed.
However, CT findings that showed the presence of a periprosthetic collection, of non-significant size (< 5mm) and high density (>20 U Housfield), could be justified by changes related to surgery.
Assuming that there is infection, we must differentiate whether it is a superficial, deep or intra-uterine infection, since treatment and severity can be very different.
It is difficult to differentiate between these three entities because local or systemic symptoms and purulent secretion can occur in all of them, with or without isolation of microorganisms.
Among the most common microorganisms isolated in infections after vascular surgery are S. aureus (20-53%), enterobacteria (14-41%) and S. coagulasa negative (15%).
Other microorganisms should be considered, such as Streptococcus spp., Gram negative bacilli non-identifying or enterococci (10%-15%).
Polymicrobial (20%), purely anaerobic (5%) infections, or vesicular (1-2%) infections can also be found1.
We cannot forget multiresistant microorganisms such as ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae or S. aureus resistant to urticaria affect patients with specific risk factors.
One month later, the patient was readmitted due to fever and pain in the surgical area, with neutrophilia (16,000/mm3) and elevated CRP (308 mg/L).
S. aureus susceptible to bacteraemia was isolated from blood cultures.
A new CT scan showed a pseudoaneurysm in the anastomosis of the prosthesis with the distal artery and a collection around the prosthesis.
C/c: pseudoaneurysm in the anastomosis of the prosthesis.
3D vascular image by CT reconstruction, where pseudoaneurysm is observed in the distal vascular anastomosis.
The patient was re-operated on from the emergency department with surgical debridement, drainage, resection of the pseudoaneurysm and of the distal segment of the vascular prosthesis, taking intraoperative cultures that were negative.
The postoperative evolution of the wound was torpid, healing by second intention, through local healing and vacuum system.
Suspicion of stent infection and the presence of potentially complicated bacteremia due to S. aureus was initiated with antibiotic treatment with 2g cloxacillin every 4 h for two weeks, with negative control blood cultures.
Subsequently, he completed treatment with levofloxacin 750 mg and rifampicin 600 mg orally every 24 hours for 4 months on an outpatient basis.
During follow-up, the patient presented a fistula orifice in the wound, with intermittent drainage of purulent material and seropositivity.
With the suspicion of persistent infection of the segment of the unresected prosthesis, a scintigraphy with marked leukocytes and SPECT-CT was performed with the objective of capturing the radiotracer in the proximal segment of the recently iliofemoral prosthesis.
SPECT-CT: radiotracer uptake in the proximal segment of the iliofemoral prosthesis.
For this reason, a new intervention was necessary, in which all protuberant material was removed.
Escherichia coli was isolated in culture.
The patient completed treatment with ceftriaxone 1g/24h for 7 days followed by ceftibutene 400mg/24h orally for another week.
Since then the patient remained asymptomatic to date.
Final diagnosis Early infection of deep surgical wound by S. aureus and late infection of vascular prosthesis by E. coli.
