A 55-year-old man with no relevant past medical history and a field worker (Albufera area) came to the emergency department complaining of asthenia, intense myalgias fever for 5 days, pharyngitis C.
He also had paresthesias in hands, feet and lips, together with dysphonia and significant dysphagia to solids and liquids for which he had a 48-hour absolute fasting.
Two days ago, the patient observed that the urine was dark and reported a clear decrease in diuresis.
Physical examination was anodyne except for a hyperemic pharynx.
Laboratory tests revealed acute renal failure, hyperbilirubinemia due to direct elevation of platelets, mild elevation of AST, ALT and CK, markedly elevated CRP and tSGV.
Urine was clearly choluric and showed intense bacteriuria.
An ultrasound was requested, which only described a homogeneous 14 cm enlarged spleen.
In the pre-transfusion study, a positive Direct Coombs with a cold antibody panagglutinin (without hemolytic anemia) was observed.
At this time, and in view of the suspicion of an infectious syndrome with multiple organ dysfunction, the family was questioned, who told us that the patient usually works with an organophosphorus injection (conjunctival injection) on previous days.
The suspicion of Weilforce Syndrome, requesting a serology that was positive for Leptospira (IgM +, IgG - and a determination of DNA blood (probably ineffective urination) was resolved and resolved in bed).
While the secondary manifestations of leptospiremia are resolved, paresthesia progressively leads to complete ICU ventilation, requiring reflexia and progression of bulbar symptoms, maintaining proper mechanical ventilation.
The possibility of finding a Guillain syndrome secondary to infection is requested, with neurophysiological data compatible with the diagnosis of polyneuropathy/polymotor neuropathy without acute myelopathy
This article proposes the option of finding oneself in the presence of polyneuropathy associated with organophosphorus exposure (isolated chloride), widely described in the literature.
Cholinesterase levels were normal, ruling out this option.
A few days later, platelet count was normalized and a lumbar puncture was performed, which was compatible with Guilin-Assignment (dilation to stimulant).
At this time, we review the subtype “non-sensory”, but “syndromic” GuillainxoMS does not necessarily imply “non-malignant” demyelinating disorders, but its most common variant is “acute” motor polyneuropathy.
The evolution was good and the patient has now resumed his day to day before the disease.
