A 34-year-old male from Gambia, who came for the first time in November 2012 to the outpatient clinic for Infectious Diseases, derived from Otorhinolaryngology (ORLclerine) due to nasal lesion and soft tissue▁pillars.
Among the personal history, the presence of a wound in the nose in the upper part of the nasal septum stands out since the age of 20, which suppurated content without fetid odor, treated in his country for two months.
He also had occasional night tremors for 3-4 years that he interpreted as fever.
The patient was born in Gambia, with migratory route: Gambia-Libia-Italy-Spanish (2010).
She lives with 4 people in acceptable social and hygienic conditions.
No known drug allergies.
She came to consultation due to a diagnosis of adenomyeloma and a nasal abutments roof, biopsy of which were taken and where the presence of rhinokulic cells was demonstrated by anatomopathological study.
At the time of this first visit, the patient had permanent rhinorrhea and a feeling of nasal obstruction that prevented him from breathing correctly.
Physical examination revealed scar in the upper nasal area.
Absence of uvula.
Small palatine tonsils
Examination revealed no significant findings.
Additional tests: • Blood count: 14g/dL hemoglobin, 99 MCV, Leukocytes 5.48x103/μL (Neutrophils 2.99x103 187 /μL), Platelets
VSG 4 mm/h.
• Biochemistry: Normal hepatorenal profile.
PCR 0.00 mg/dL.
Total proteins 7.58 g/dL.
Anti-streptomycin 55 U/mL, Reumatoid Factor 9.7 U/mL.
• Serotyping for Brucella,▁Cytomegalovirus, Lues, HIV and Hepatitis C. IgG 3.6 for Epstein-acquired virus, IgG 354 and IgM 0.65 for Toxoplasma
HBsAg negative AntiHBc positive, AntiHBs positive.
• Sputum culture: Development of oropharyngeal flora.
No AFB was observed.
No development of mycobacteria.
• Chest X-ray: Normal cardiothoracic index.
No image of infiltrates or condensations.
• CT scan of the sinuses: the sinuses is fixed by blade tissues of both nostrils, causing expansion of these fossae, as well as demineralization and loss of definition of the nasal cartilages.
Nasal septum displaced to the left.
Polypoid lesions.
The patient was referred back to ENT for surgical cleaning and sample collection for microbiological study, and the patient did not return for consultation until 2015.
Differential diagnosis The initial differential diagnosis includes infections due to granulomatous leishmaniasis, sarcoidosis, leprosy, vasculitis, Wegener's granulomatosis, verrucous carcinoma, mucocutaneous carcinoma and other infections such as mucocutaneous carcinoma.
Displacement patient was not seen in the review because he had to go for work reasons and lost follow-up.
Three years later, he returned in consultation with the same problem.
It is unclear whether you have followed treatment.
It was reevaluated by ENT, taking samples for microbiological study, where Staphylococcus aureus and Klebsiella rhinoscleromatis are isolated.
Negative culture for mycobacteria.
Both pathogens are sensitive, according to the antibiogram, to Ciprofloxacin, so it is decided to treat with this antibiotic, at a dose of 500mg every 12 hours for 6 months, close monitoring with A. Primary to monitor tolerance and adherence.
Final diagnosis The characteristic microbiological and anatomopathological data effectively point to a Rinoscleroma.
