Clinical case.
The patient was an 86-year-old woman who resided in a department of Buenos Aires, where she lived with seven cats.
She presented with asthenia and adynamia associated with muscle tremor and disorientation.
She was receiving nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for 48 h and corisopradol for painful cervical arthrosis.
She reported no history of drug allergies, diabetes, hypertension or tuberculosis.
On physical examination, the patient was wet, responded to verbal anodes and mobilized the four limbs.
No signs of acute neurological or meningeal foci, skin or soft tissue infections were observed at the time of consultation.
The abdomen was blunt, depressible and painless; axillary temperature was 37.3 °C; dry skin and mucous membranes; and she reported hypoxia.
Electrotechnical examination detected R1-R2 in 4 foci, with no signs of pump failure.
At auscultation there were no sharp sounds.
The patient was currently under study due to the presence of breast nodules in a surgical plan.
Laboratory tests showed the following results: hemoglobin 10.8 mg/dl, hematocrit 32%, platelets 76,000/mm3, urea 101 mg/dl, creatinine 2.17 mg/dl, sodium 134 mEq/l, chloride 5,200 mEq/l.
Initially, acute renal failure was diagnosed and hospitalization was indicated in a medical clinic. At 24 hours of hospitalization, the patient was reactive but disoriented over time and with hypoacusis; he had a halon muscle contracture neck, but had neck stiffness.
He had negative Babinski sign and preserved osteotendinous reflexes, as well as ocular mobility.
Tramadol and diazepam were indicated.
A computed axial tomography was performed, which showed no recent bleeding or deviation of the structures of the midline.
A lumbar puncture was performed and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained was sent to the Microbiology Laboratory for culture and to the general laboratory to perform the cytochemical study.
Two blood cultures were also obtained.
Glycorrhachia was not detectable, in contrast to a blood glucose of 110 mg/dl.
Proteinorrhachia was 95mg/dl, chlorides 120 mEq/l and cells 30/mm3 with predominance of neutrophils (11,000 leukocytes/mm3 in blood, with 83% segmented).
Empirical treatment was started with ceftriaxone (1g/12 h), ampicillin (3 g/6 h) and dexamethasone (8 mg/d), all administered intravenously for 14 days.
The patient was successfully treated and discharged with follow-up by the Infectious Disease Department after 8 days.
Microbiological studies.
CSF: few gram-negative▁cocci were observed in the Gram stain.
The sample was fixed on soy trypticase agar with 5% sheep blood, chocolate agar and a bottle of blood cultures (Bact/Alert, bioMérieux, Marcy l"É).
After 24 h of non-hemolytic transformation, white-gray colonies measuring 1-2 mm in diameter, with non-hemolytic odor and Gram-negative were observed.
The blood culture bottle was positive at 11.5 h, also with gram-negative▁cocci.
Blood: two standard Bact/Alert hemocultives were obtained.
Gram-negative rods were also found to be positive for▁parasites (10.8 h).
A subculture was performed in soy agartripticase with 5% sheep blood and chocolate agar, and colonies were similar to those of CSF culture.
Identification: isolations of hemocultives and CSF were identified as additional P challenge by means of API 20NE, API 20E, by Vitek 1 (bioMylÉrieux).
Antibiotic sensitivity was determined by the epsilometric method of the manufacturer's recommendations (E test, AB-Biodisk, texture, Solna, Sweden); Mc-Acelain agar was used with a turbidity pattern of 5%, followed by 5%, in 5% and 5%, respectively.
The strain, according to the CLSI cut-off points, was sensitive to the following antibiotics: penicillin 0.032 μg/ml, ceftriaxone▁0.003 μg/ml, levofloxacin 0.025 μg/ml and
The detection of β -lactamase was also performed using the nitrocellulose test, with negative results.
