Clinical history and current disease Male, 51 years old.
Cardiovascular risk factors: old smoking, hypertension since 1998, type 2 diabetes mellitus in treatment with oral antidiabetics.
Anaplastic T-cell lymphoma in 2007 treated with chemotherapy, radiotherapy and autotransplantation with BAM, currently in complete remission.
Myelodysplastic syndrome refractory to cytologic treatment with multiline dysplasia complex karyotype treated with azacitidine as a bridge to bone marrow transplantation.
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
No known allergies.
Cardiologic check-up in 2006 with normal ECG, echocardiogram and stress test.
It usually refers to asymptomatic cardiovascular disease.
The patient came to the emergency department for 3 days with fever of up to 38.3 oC, asthenia,▁malaise and general pain.
On the day of the consultation, the patient had started with pain and retrosymptom accompanying dyspnea of increasing intensity, radiating to the back, shoulders and jaws, which increased with deep▁inspiration/40 and▁malaise BPpin.
Physical examination was normal except for hypoventilation in both lung bases.
▁Complementary tests ECG: sinus tachycardia with mild diffuse ST elevation slightly higher than that previously found and nonspecific repolarization alterations were observed.
• Analytical analysis showed increased infectious parameters - Establishment (PCR 32; Procalcitonin 10); macrocytic anemia, platelet count and leukopenia.
Ligand increased markers of myocardial damage: CPK 210; CPK MB 19 and troponin T 0.62.
Acute renal failure (Cr 2.1) with preserved diuresis (GFRe 36 mL/min).
The acid-base balance and the rest of the laboratory tests were normal.
• Urgent Doppler echocardiography: ruling out global and segmental▁contractility abnormalities, pericardial effusion and acute pathology.
• Chest CT: ruling out the existence of acute aortic disease, pulmonary thromboembolism or significant infectious process.
Antifungal drugs were administered empirically during admission, without microbiological isolation in hemocultives, urocultives and sputum cultures.
Viral serology was also negative.
▁Myocardial damage markers were monitored, with a maximum troponin T of 1.59, CPK of 279 and CPK of 43 at four days of admission, with progressive decrease and normalization at discharge.
ProBNP was determined to reach a maximum of 8319 pg/mL at 5 days after admission.
The absence of infectious focus was performed transesophageal echocardiography at 5 days, observing borderline left ventricular function (LVEF: 0.45-0.50), with no images suggestive of endocarditis or other significant findings.
Treatment with corticosteroids, beta-blockers, ACEI and diuretics was initiated with clinical and analytical improvement, persisting borderline systolic function on echocardiogram at discharge.
He had been seen in consultation ten days later and reported to be asymptomatic cardiovascular.
A control electrocardiogram was performed, where the above-described alterations persisted, an echocardiogram showed a dilated left ventricle with borderline systolic function, without pericardial effusion or alterations in mild infectious leukopenia and persistent infectious leukopenia.
The next day, a cardiac MRI with▁adenosine stress showed signs compatible with acute myoperitis and borderline systolic function, without inducing myocardial ischemia.
The same treatment was maintained and the patient was referred for consultation at one month.
Diagnosis • Septic shock with non-affiliated focus • Myodysplastic acute syndrome • Myeloid pigmented colitis syndrome
