An 82-year-old woman came to the emergency department complaining of decreased VA in the left eye for a month and a half, with no pain or other accompanying ocular or systemic symptoms.
The personal history included metabolic syndrome, hypothyroidism secondary to thyroidectomy due to nodule, cataract surgery in BE.
The examination showed a better corrected VA of 20/32 in the RE and hand movement in the LE.
There is no reactive afferent pupillary defect.
The patient had mild hyperaemia in the left eye with a 1+ stopcock and an intraocular pressure of 20 mmHg in the left eye.
In the OI FO, there is a dense and mobile vitreous detachment (DVP), and extensive bleeding of a vesicular lesion with a white appearance
An ocular ultrasound of 10 MHz was performed, demonstrating the presence of a complete DVP and hyperechogenic signals in the vitreous space.
OI OCT cannot be performed due to media opacity.
The patient was diagnosed with posterior uveitis of undetermined origin and treated with topical corticoids and cyclolates.
Poor quality fluorescein angiography is performed due to vitreous turbidity, in which diffuse hyperfluorescence is intuited, greater in arches and papilla.
Blood tests were performed with biochemistry, blood count and serology for the discard of syphilis, CMV, Epstein-acquired, toxoplasma and HIV, which is negative to all of them, except IgG+ totoplasma.
A chest plate was requested, which was normal.
Vitreous humor was extracted for viral study and MFC, which were negative.
Because of media opacity and no response to topical treatment, a decision was made to perform a 23 G pars plana diagnostic resection (PPV) for the extraction of samples for microbiological analysis.
At the end of the surgery diffuse subretinal infiltrates are observed, not only peripatellar infiltrate with possible vascular sheathing, and a hemorrhagic and exudative nasal lesion to the papilla that remains poorly diagnosed.
The vitreous culture for microorganisms is negative and the analysis by CMF is reported as a very hypocellular sample in which no lymphocytes of▁anomalous phenotype are observed.
Since none of the tests performed allowed diagnostic confirmation, it was decided to perform a new 23 G PPV (and 5000 Cs silicone injection) for the performance of a high-grade diffuse▁choroid-retinal biopsy, compatible with lymphoma.
Orbital and cerebral MRI with gadolinium was performed, ruling out lesions compatible with cerebral lymphoma, but a certain contrast enhancement in the retina was confirmed, without involvement of the optic nerve or other▁orbital structures.
The patient is referred to the Hematology Department for systemic screening with lumbar puncture, cranio-thoraco-abdominal and analytical CT, which are all negative and therefore diagnosed with POLE.
The patient and her family refuse systemic treatments or radiation therapy, but accept treatment with 0.1 ml rituximab i.v. injection.
off-label use, which is performed up to four times.
In this case, since the patient had silicone in the anterior chamber and in the vitreous compartment, CMF cannot be performed to control the negativization of the CD20 and periodic monitoring of IL-6 serum levels with periodic monitoring.
