▁CLINICAL CONSULTATION: A 14-year-old male patient presented to the emergency department of the referral hospital with a skin rash.
Pancreatitis, ischaemic colitis, ulcerative colitis, gingival bleeding
Mild atopic dermatitis.
Complete vaccination schedule.
CURRENT▁CLINICAL HISTORY: Pruriginous rash with centrifugal progression in the last 12 hours is not accompanied by fever or other symptoms .
They do not report changes in daily habits, contact with new products, intake of unusual foods, or contact with animals There are no other people in their environment similar to their previous illness, less two episodes of professional consultation at night.
The day before, treatment with Amoxicillin was completed by a bacterial "pharyngitis" unconfirmed with TDR for GABHS or culture EXPLORATION: LGA, normohydrated.
Generalized macular rash, more pronounced in trunk that respects palms and plants.
No scratching injuries.
No edema of soft or articular tissues.
No significant cervical adenopathy or hepatomegaly ENT is present: non-hypertrophy ̄ or▁exudates, or enanthemas.
The examination was normal.
▁CLINICAL JUICE: Nonspecific pruriginous rash. BACKGROUND: Desloratadine 5 mg/day EBVOLUTION Our patient comes 24 hours after urticarial exanthema.
Diagnosis : urticaria Treatment: Methylprednisolone 40 mg IM Prednisone 30 mg oral for three days Three days later comes for abdominal pain.
Continued affliction: generalized mental illness in trunk physical exanthema and SSCS.
Hyperaemia pharyngo- pharyngo- pharyngitis not exudated.
Prednisone Adenopathies submandiblular and left laterocervical TDR for GABHS: positive Diagnosis: scarlet fever Treatment: Amoxicillin-Clavula skin folds non-respecting
She has no strawberry tongue.
Amygda mental illness, hyperemic, with▁exudates, bilateral cervical pathologies.
No stricture or hepatomegaly.
The patient was referred to the emergency department for urgent laboratory tests:▁lymphomonocytosis (Leucos 18.700: N 23.9%; SeA; MOSEC 9.2%) rapid test for EBV positive diagnosis MON 60 antibiotic and PTFE 78.
Symptomatic treatment At 48 hours, almost complete resolution of the rash and progressive remission of symptoms within two weeks.
