Anamnesis A 78-year-old man with a history of hypertension controlled only with diet.
He had been diagnosed with prostate cancer 14 years ago, which after surgical and hormonal treatment was currently considered in remission.
The only current medical treatment was sildenafil every 15 days.
As a family history of interest, he reported that a brother had been diagnosed with generalized epilepsy, suffering sudden death during an episode.
The patient consulted due to an abrupt episode consisting of ascending epigastric wave, followed by a confusional episode, with disconnection of the environment, incoherent language, confusional state of the left limb in approximately 30 minutes, and movements of the
During the transfer to the hospital and in the Emergency Department, she suffered two other episodes of similar characteristics.
Specifically questioned, she reports that for a few years she has had brief episodes of disorientation associated with a sense of mental blockade, for which she had not consulted.
Physical examination revealed that the patient had normalcy and had fever and no meningeal signs.
Cardiac and pulmonary auscultation and the rest of the general examination did not show pathological findings.
In the neurological examination, the patient was alert, conscious and perfectly oriented, with preserved cognitive functions, being the language coherent and fluid.
The examination of the cranial nerves, muscle balance and gait were normal, calling attention to hyper-exalted and symmetrical reflexes, with bilateral flexor cutaneous-plantar skin reflex.
The only significant finding in the examination was mild left faciobrachial hypoesthesia.
▁Complementary tests • A wide blood test that included complete blood count, general biochemistry, coagulation, immunological study (ANAS), thyroid function and proteinogram showed normal values.
Tumor markers, serology (Borrelia, loos, Brucella and HIV) and antineuronal antibodies were negative.
• The study of the cerebrospinal fluid included biochemistry, serology (lues, Borrelia and Brucella), viral PCR and culture, all of them negative.
• Electrocardiogram was normal and chest X-ray showed some old calcified images.
• An actual toraco-abdominal-pelvic CT scan (CT) showed bilateral calcified pleural plaques, with involvement of the old diaphragmatic complex, suggesting cysts exposed to asbestos cysts.
• Brain CT showed only some lesions compatible with old lacunar infarction and frontal cortex predominance.
• Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed scant images of a frontal hypophysis, with no evidence of a moderate frontal appearance, calling attention to long-standing hyperintensity RT in both chronic ischemic contrast systems.
Magnetic resonance imaging FLAIR sequence coronal sections showing bilateral hippocampal and parahippocampal hyperintensity of right dominance.
• A Doppler study of the supraaortic trunks showed a probable proximal critical stenosis of the right vertebral artery.
• Electroencephalogram recording was abnormal, with occasional▁epileptiform discharges (tip morphology) in the right temporal region.
Diagnosis: Complex partial▁epileptic seizures of temporal origin, secondary to bilateral hippocampus mesial and secondary, with presentation in adults (late age).
Treatment Treatment was initiated with valproic acid, with adequate control of complex partial seizures and therapeutic levels of valproic acid (92.8 μg/ml) were obtained at discharge.
The patient was asymptomatic after outpatient follow-up, without new episodes during the 9 months of evolution. The control MRI scan was similar to the previous one.
