An 84-year-old woman, with hypertension, retired teacher, was admitted for a 5-month history of general syndrome, with 4 soft stools/day, arthralgia without arthritis, intermittent fever and hypertransaminas.
A CT scan, endoscopy and▁ERCP were performed.
It was evaluated by 9 specialists.
ANAs, rheumatoid factor, quantiferon, digestion in▁faeces and T. Whipple were negative.
The case was not microbiologically documented despite serial hemocultive, urocultive and coprocultive.
No underlying neoplastic process was observed.
During the 2 months that extended admission, the diagnoses were: sphincterolithiasis with sphincterotomy, post-ERCP acute pancreatitis, permanent atrial fibrillation and jejunal gastrointestinal bleeding after starting anticoagulation.
She presented two episodes of knee arthritis and pleural effusion, both fluids being compatible with an inflammatory process, and two episodes of exanthema initially attributed to metamizole, with fever persisting.
At this time, the patient was transferred to the internal medicine ward where the patient was globally assessed and the available information was compiled.
Serum ferritin was 5492 mg/dl and glycated ferritin was 14% (VR 50-80).
In compliance with Yamaguchi criteria (2 major and 3 minor), she was diagnosed with adult Still's disease.
Explaining prognosis and potential complications to the patient, she expressed her desire to "go for all"; however, she provided an advance directive if necessary.
She was discharged with corticosteroids, anticoagulation and gymnasium rehabilitation sessions 3 times/week.
The patient was readmitted 2 months later due to fever and diarrhea, in the context of bacteremia due to Lys and pseudomonas colitis due to Clostridium difficile.
Physical examination revealed cachexia, amyoatrophies, bedding and onset of pressure ulcers in both heels.
At that moment, the patient said that "I have been thinking a lot of these days and decided that I'm going to take the towel" .Try to clarify doubts about it, the patient reaffirmed her decision level, with 3.
The family, who knew her biographic history, accepted her decision.
He was entitled to refuse treatment and proceeded to adapt the therapeutic effort, as he could declare a child travelling abroad.
