A 15-year-old male patient, with no known toxic habits or drug allergies, with a history of allergic rhinitis (grams and olives).
Student of rural origin.
Twelve days before admission, the patient presented fever with odynophagia, being diagnosed by a family physician with acute pharyngitis and being treated with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for three days with resolution of symptoms.
I found it good, in the hospital, because in the last two days she presented fever of up to 39 with sweating worsening in thirst, general discomfort and back pain irradiating and when the left shoulder and back improved.
On physical examination, the patient was conscious, oriented, and with a moderate sense of disease.
There were no abnormalities in head, neck, mouth and pharynx, except moderate hypertrophy.
Cardiac auscultation revealed irregular heart beat and no murmurs, with extinguished cough, and respiratory auscultation revealed biphasic hypoventilation.
The abdomen was blade and depressible without pain, masses or organomegaly.
Normal extremities.
▁Complementary examinations showed Hb: 13.6 g/dl, hematocrit: 40%, platelets: 236,000 mm3.
Leukocytes: 20,400 mm3 (N 84%, L 10%).
Coagulation tests were normal.
Biochemistry: glucose: 110 mg/dl, creatinine: 0.91 mg/dl, normal.
Hepatic profile: total bilirubin: 0.48 mg/dl, AST: 19 U/L, ALT: 16 U/L, AP: 180 U/L, GGT: 155 U/L.
CPK: 84 U/L, troponin 0.55 ng/ml, LDH: 192 U/L.
PCR: 243 mg/L.
Procalcitonin: 2.23 ng/ml. An ECG showed sinus rhythm, together with ST segment elevation with multiple derivations superior authenticity.
The chest X-ray showed an increase in the cardiac silhouette and small left pleural effusion.
The syndromic diagnosis of acute pericarditis and the patient was admitted.
Differential diagnosis Acute pericarditis (AP) is a clinical syndrome characterized by multiple causes of chest pain, pericardial friction and electrocardiogram (ECG) repolarization.
The diagnosis of pericarditis requires at least two of these three elements and, although auscultation of a pericardial friction allows, by itself, to establish the diagnosis, its absence never discards it.
The main clinical manifestation of acute pericarditis is chest pain, which can be confused with that of an acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
However, unlike infarction, pain is rapid but not sudden, although intense is not oppressive, it changes with breathing and postural changes, and is not accompanied by vegetative symptoms.
The ECG is abnormal in more than 80% of the cases of AP and consists of a diffuse elevation of the ST segment with superior consistency (subepidural lesion curve) with positive T waves.
The PR segment may be descended (ear injury curve).
These changes usually last for hours or a few days.
Unlike AMI, there is no evidence of Q wave or mirror image.
Markers of myocardial injury (CPK and troponin) are usually normal or slightly elevated due to epicardial inflammation but never reach the levels observed in AMI.
Pleuritic pain caused by pleural effusion, pneumonia, or pneumothorax, may have characteristics common to pericarditis, but pain is located more laterally in the chest.
However, pericarditis is often associated with pleuritis (pleuro-peripherite) so pain may have characteristics of both.
Pathologies of the aorta, esophagus, and chest wall have clinical and radiological characteristics that rarely cause confusion with the diagnosis of AP. Once the syndromic diagnosis of pericarditis is established, the etiological diagnosis must be established.
The first consideration to consider is to assess whether there is any underlying disease that may be the cause of pericarditis.
Patients with renal failure, recent AMI, cardiac surgery, chest radiation therapy, known neoplasia or collagen diseases may develop AP that must always be considered secondary to the underlying disease in the first place.
However, the most common situation is that pericarditis is present as a primary disease.
In these cases, the vast majority (90%) of pericarditis are idiopathic or viral.
Despite the term idiopathic, there is sufficient evidence to suppose that most cases are due to a viral infection or an immunological response to it.
Unable to demonstrate this viral infection represents an effort of complexity and cost so high that in no way they are characterized mainly by the fact that the disease resolves spontaneously without sequelae,
There are a number of clinical data that can be very useful to guide the etiological diagnosis of AP. The presence of an intrathoracic infection (pneumonia or empyema), requires ruling out purulent pericarditis.
Another very important aspect to be considered is the geographic/epidemiological context: tuberculous pericarditis is very rare in Spain, about 4% of the total number of pericarditis, but in some areas of Africa it may account for 80% of the total.
In contrast, other clinical data are totally nonspecific, such as the presence of effusion or cardiac tamponade.
Although in relative terms, the packing is more frequent in specific pericarditis, it is not uncommon in idiopathic or viral pericarditis and, in absolute terms, this is the most frequent etiology.
Other clinical aspects of interest such as the presence of pleural effusion and prolonged clinical course are totally nonspecific, although a self-limiting pericarditis within a few days is almost always viral or idiopathic.
The last step in the etiological diagnosis of acute pericarditis would be pericardiocentesis, and pericarditis biopsy: pericarditis can provide definitive data for the diagnosis of specific pericarditis (purulent, tuberculous or restrictive).
Although its performance is not very high, 19% and 22% respectively, it can be increased to 35% when practiced for not only diagnostic but therapeutic purposes in patients with cardiac tamponade.
The patient was admitted 24 hours later with clinical signs of hemodynamic compromise, hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnea, jugular engorgement and paradoxical pulse.
An urgent TTE was performed, which showed a moderate-to-severe global pericardial effusion with collapse of the right cavities, variations in the mitral filling with respiration and inferior vena cava with significant collapse, compatible with partial collapse.
Given the situation of clinical and echocardiographic taping, a pericardiocentesis was urgently performed with a manual output of approximately 500 cc of clearly purulent liquid, and a subxiphoid drainage was placed.
After this intervention hemodynamic stability was restored and antibiotic treatment with ceftriaxone 1gr/12 hours and vancomycin was started at the same doses.
A CT scan of the chest revealed the persistence of pericardial effusion (improved thickness), together with a moderate bilateral pleural effusion, and multiple mediastinal lymphadenopathies of up to 15 mm in diameter.
After 48 hours of pericardial drainage, the patient remained febrile and had chest pain.
A new analytical revealed leukocytosis of 30,800 leukocytes/mm3 and an increase in CRP to 390 mg/L.
A control TTE showed a pericardial effusion of 8 mm in the infero-posterior side and 4 mm in the▁anterolateral side, with no signs of tamponade and no window for re-puncturing.
Blood cultures were negative at admission, and Streptococcus dysgalatiae spp was isolated from the pericardial fluid culture.
ecsimilis.
The persistence of the clinical symptoms and the low drainage output, the patient was operated by means of a mean stereotomy.
A thickened pericardium was observed and a very thick, organized purulent fluid was extracted that covered the myocardium.
A phrenic pericardiectomy was performed to the phrenic cavity, and the rest of the cavity was connected to the pericranial layer.
Histological examination of the pericardium was compatible with fibrinopurulent pericarditis and a new pericardial fluid culture was negative.
The postoperative period was uneventful, she completed 4 weeks of parenteral antibiotic treatment and was discharged asymptomatic.
Final diagnosis Persistent purulent colitis complicated with packing due to Streptococcus dysgalatiae spp.
ecsimilis.
