Medical history: Chronic bronchitis, a single hospital admission two years before the present due to respiratory failure secondary to non-condensing respiratory infection with influenza A (H1N1) pmd09, possible brucellosis in childhood.
Surgical history: one year ago, the patient underwent surgery for ischiorectal abscess without complications.
At present there is no treatment.
Three months before the current episode, he had received ciprofloxacin prescribed by his primary care physician, without any cause recorded in his isolation.
Toxic habits: smoker of 1 pack of daily tobacco, occasionally is a consumer of hatchets and drinker of 2-3 drinks daily beer.
He lives in rural areas; he has not traveled recently outside his town or taken out of the country.
At present in a situation of unemployment.
Animals at home: a dog.
She came to the emergency room for general▁malaise and moderate asthenia, accompanied by hyperthermia of 39oC lasting 3 days, nausea and a single vomiting.
It also begins with holocraneal headache and interscapular pain, followed by sweating and general relaxation.
In the anamnesis by equipment, she did not refer cough or expectoration, urinary symptoms or alterations of the intestinal transit, no pruritus or choluria.
In recent months, he did not comment on weight loss.
In the previous weeks, he had presented an open wound in his left ankle, which could not relate to any circumstances; dermal lesions were not seen or he remembered recent bites.
She doesn't report risky sexual relations.
Physical examination showed blood pressure of 105/67.
Afebrile, good general condition, oriented and collaborating.
Eupneic without oxygen supply.
Good perfused and normal-colored.
Asthenic situation.
Rhythmic cardiac tones at 103 bpm without audible murmurs.
The vesicular murmur was preserved without other respiratory sounds.
The abdomen was blushing, with no organomegaly or peritonitis.
No notable dermal lesions were found, and superficial lymph node lymph node lymphadenopathy was not diagnosed.
Neurological reflexes: non▁rigidity of the neck, signs of Kig and Brudzinsky negative, conscious (Glasgow 15/15), normal cranial nerves, strength and sensitivity, both algebraic and plantar cutaneous.
No dysmetria or diadochokinesia.
Normal gait without lateralization or increase of the support base.
Nomina, understand and repeat.
Speech is fluid and the rest of the upper functions are normal.
While seated in emergencies, she presents seizures lasting 30 seconds with tonic-clonic movements and posture of dismissal.
Seizures with clonazepam itself and during sphincter relaxation do not occur.
After the crisis, she presented a post-critical episode with central tapes that paulatinely improved with supportive measures and physiotherapy.
Blood tests were performed in the emergency department, showing a platelet count of 40,000, with the rest of the normal series.
Biochemistry showed elevated CRP 129.21 mg/l and procalcitonin 20 ng/ml.
Normal renal function and renal function.
Urine analysis showed white blood cells and few nitrites were negative.
In the toxic test performed,▁benzodiazepines and hachís were positive.
In the imaging studies requested, there were no foci of consolidation, infiltrates or effusion on chest X-ray, normal abdominal X-ray.
The CT scan of the skull, requested by the episode with established acute ischemia, describes occupation of the ethmoid sinuses and right maxilla with inflammatory aspect, ruling out signs of established acute ischemia space and/or occupying lesions.
In the peripheral blood smear requested urgently, neutrophils are seen with increased granulation and some fallen, as well as lymphocyte return.
After the results, it was decided to perform a lumbar puncture sending cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples to biochemistry and microbiology laboratories for culture of common microorganisms, mycobacteria, PCR for virus and pneumococcal antigen.
The CSF was cloudy with glucose 29.3 mg/dl, protein 130.8 mg/dl, and secretory signs/mm3, 1170 leukocytes/mm3 (66% mononuclear).
At the same time, serology is extracted to rule out HIV and zoonoses.
Differential diagnosis A) In our case we are facing a patient who initially comes for nonspecific symptoms but with deterioration of the general state that associates headache and fever, later presenting seizures.
Lumbar puncture was performed for high suspicion of meningitis, obtaining CSF compatible with▁lymphocytic meningitis, so etiologically the following diagnoses are proposed.
(a) Infections* Meningitis 1 - chronic bacterial meningitis or neoplasia caused by meningoencephalitis in patients over 50 years of age, immunosuppressed by corticosteroid treatment/immunosuppressant comorbidities
2- Tuberculous meningitis: subacute-chronic clinical picture that clinically courses with weakness, headache, fever not very high and personality changes.
This is followed by another phase in which neurological symptoms▁predominate, such as lethargy, confusion, involvement of cranial nerves.
In the last phase, confusion leads to stupor, seizures, hemiparesis, coma.
3- Decapitated bacterial meningitis: this clinical circumstance requires the use of antimicrobials prior to CSF analysis.
Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis were the most frequent causes in our environment.
4- Neurosyphilis: Advanced phase of Treponema admitlidum infection, which clinically presents with headache, fever and neck stiffness.
If syphilitic gomas develop, seizures are more likely.
* Viral meningoencephalitis: Clinically, they may present altered level of consciousness, fever, seizures and neurological focality.
In our environment we should rule out the presence of: ESR 1 and 2, Enterovirus, varicella zoster virus (VZV) and West Nile virus.
* Fungal meningitis: Opportunistic disease caused by cryptococcus neoformans, which mainly affects immunosuppressed patients and whose most common neurological manifestation is meningoencephalitis resulting in crypt formation.
(b) Non-infectious: 1- Temporal arteritis: It is the most common vasculitis, affecting large and medium vessels in patients over 60-70 years of age.
Neurological symptoms consisting of headache and sometimes seizures are associated with persistent fever and constitutional syndrome.
2- Primary brain lymphoma: This is a rare variant of extranodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
The most frequently described symptoms are: neurological deficit, personality disorders, headache with vomiting and seizures.
3- Other brain tumors: The most frequent brain tumor lesion is metastasis and among the primary ones we find glioblastoma and meningioma.
Clinically, they present with headache, seizures, vomiting, syncope, behavioral alterations and neurological focality.
4- Pharmacological: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and cotrimoxazole, among others.
5 Sarcoidosis: Aseptic meningitis due to granulomatous inflammation that follows a perivascular distribution affecting the CNS can produce focal or generalized seizures depending on the affected area.
B) Taking into account the circumstances surrounding our patient, we have previously commented that he resides in a rural area and has a dog as a pet, so we would include in the differential diagnosis the following zoonoses: 1- Capno
It can occur as fulminant sepsis or▁lymphocytic meningitis in immunosuppressed patients.
Dogs and cats act as reservoirs.
2- Q fever: caused by Coxiella burni.
Extraordinarily, it can present with neurological symptoms; it is the most common zoonosis in our environment.
3- Lyme disease: caused by Borrelia burgdorferi, which characteristically presents with erythema migrans after tick bite.
It can cause▁lymphocytic meningitis with cerebellar and cranial nerve involvement (mainly facial nerve).
Establishment of clinical findings and complementary tests, pending completion of microbiological studies, the patient goes to the Infectious Diseases Unit.
Given the characteristics of CSF, the acute/subacute presentation of the clinical picture and occupation of paranasal sinuses in cranial CT, empirical treatment was initiated with ceftriaxone 2 g/12 hours listeriosis and Ampicillosis.
Subsequently, Microbiology reports the presence of abundant mononuclear leukocytes in gram stain, pending culture results for common pathogenic microorganisms.
During the following days, the patient improved clinically by relieving headache with analgesics first step, and a fever appeared since the first day of hospitalization.
No new episodes of seizures were reported.
Analytically, the inflammatory parameters of the patient improved with a decrease in CRP, being at discharge in 3.52 mg/l, although leukocytosis persisted, which was attributed to corticoid treatment.
▁Complementary tests were completed and it was observed that the PCR of TBC and virus (enterovirus, ESR 1, 2 and VZV) and the pneumococcal antigen in CSF were negative.
Q fever serology (Ig M C. burnetti), Leptospira spp.
and Bartonella spp.
were negative in turn.
Emergency hemoculptives were also negative.
CSF samples were negative for chocolate agar and blood agar at 72 hours.
Samples embedded in liquid medium (thioglycolate and BHI broths) after five days showed growth of Capno, to perform canimorsus without recovering viable microorganisms.
Based on what has been described in the literature and the clinical and analytical improvement, sequential treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 875/125 mg was continued every 8 hours orally.
Other complementary tests were requested, such as EEG, which revealed excessive emotional tension without collecting paroxysmal activity or other abnormalities; and a mild cerebral MRI vermis cerebellum was observed.
Patient's brain MRI showed mild vermis cerebellum.
After eleven days of admission, the patient was discharged because he was asymptomatic, continuing with the established treatment until completing 14 days.
The patient was reviewed in the outpatient unit for infectious diseases eleven days after surgery, identifying the asymptomatic patient, so the patient was finally discharged.
No new hospital admissions or emergency department visits have been recorded since that.
Since the patient had a history of open wound, and there is a history of contact with dogs, this could be the gateway to the microorganism, also presenting as an added risk factor for suffering excessive consumption of alcohol canim capno.
Final diagnosis: CapnoÆs meningitis in patient with active enolism.
