Personal history The patient lives with his parents and studies second year of high school.
The patient presented a diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) since childhood (6-7 years), having been under treatment with methylphenidate 10 mg/day until about two months ago, when the pediatrician referred the patient for medical reasons.
Pediatric history: she reported that pregnancy and childbirth were normal, that physical development was adequate.
At 3 years of age he came to a private school where the child "was not comfortable, because they punished him a lot" and his performance was medium.
The primary courses carried out them with good performance.
In a third grade he was taken to a psychologist because his parents noticed him very nervous and restless.
At 9 years of age, she started treatment with methylphenidate.
During the compulsory secondary education courses, the performance is quite acceptable, drawing remarkable and outstanding in most subjects, notably improving school life and remitting hyperactivity and improving care.
Toxicological history She says she had consumed cannabis for the first time at 14 years of age, very occasionally ("a broth") up to the present time.
He also recognizes alcohol consumption some weekends (2-3 cubalibres when he leaves).
He does not smoke and has never tried cocaine,▁carcinogens or other toxics.
The mother confirms this information.
Family history No pathologies of interest.
She has a sister two years older than him.
Current history Two months ago, with friends, she took a "Red Bull" with whisky and then smoked about six broths of a dog, a quantity higher than what she used to consume.
She describes that she began to laugh and find herself subjectively well, but she quickly began to experience unpleasant sensations, which led to vomiting.
Then he noticed an intense feeling of anguish, dissatisfaction with death, feeling of imminent death, he heard people as more pitiless, feeling of strangeness and feeling that they were afraid of dying.
He also felt that people "go for him" with ideas of prejudice.
He did not refer to hearing aids or other sensory modality, and he believed that the picture lasted one hour.
For this reason he came to the emergency room of our hospital.
The emergency report of that day highlights that she was no longer taking methylphenidate and that she presented with psychomotor agitation that resolved with the administration of haloperidol.
It refers to the fact that during the picture of cannabis intoxication presented delusional ideation of mystical character, on which later establishes a partial criticism.
On the exploration of this day, anxiety stands out, not evidencing symptoms, sensory-perceptive disorders or cognitive alterations.
Physical examination, neurological examination, electrocardiogram and laboratory tests were normal.
The detection of toxic urine was positive for cannabis exclusively.
At discharge she presented adequate criticism of delusional ideation, was diagnosed with cannabis intoxication and was referred to the Center of Care for Drug Addiction.
After this episode she was fine, did not consume cannabis again, which confirms the mother.
Two months after the episode, without cannabis consumption, she suddenly presented the same symptoms as in the previous episode.
As he was travelling, he began to notice "accelerated", to think that the people around him "could be diabolical", that he "was the center of everything", that the rest were not dead with his suffering.
This gave him intense anguish.
He again felt that the others spoke slower.
The thoughts of the people laughing at him, playing with his life, lived as his own thoughts, and the others told him that he was about to regret what was passing.
At the time of the exploration, anguish was not observed. At that moment, there were no signs of perseverance or alterations of thought, partial criticism of the sensations had suffered and recurrent symptoms were presented.
▁Complementary examinations were normal and no toxic urine was detected.
She was diagnosed with flash-back episode related to cannabis use and anxiolytics were prescribed.
