Anamnesis A 56-year-old man with a personal history of long-standing type II diabetes mellitus treated with oral antidiabetics, smoker of a pack of cigarettes a day, occasional gouty arthritis.
The patient comes to the emergency department with a clinical picture of 10 days of evolution consisting of left lumbar pain radiating to the lower hemiabdomen associated with several episodes of emesis with profuse aspect, fever 39 or constipation.
The family member comments on isolated episodes of disorientation and dysarthric speech.
Physical examination at the emergency room showed poor general health, fever up to 39.5 oC, blood pressure 90/50 mmHg, profuse sweating and tachycardia at 140 bpm, and low level of consciousness.
The examination by equipment showed the following: rhythmic heart sounds without murmurs, vesicular murmur present without added noises.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible, with no signs of peritoneal irritation.
Cold extremities without signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Basic support measures were initiated and contacted with Intensive Care Unit (ICU) staff, who decided to be admitted immediately to their Unit.
▁Complementary tests ● ● Gauze dressing: pH 7.37, PaCO2 30.9 mmHg, HCO3 17.4 mEq/l, hemoglobin 12.9 mg/dl, potassium 3.3 mEq/l, sodium 12066 mEq/l, 2
• Analytical in the Emergency Department (7/2/2012): creatinine 4.17 mg/dl, urea 177 mg/dl, total bilirubin 2.11 mg/dl, direct bilirubin 1.69 mg/dl, platelets 300 mg/dl, sodium 133
● Urine: 250 leukocytes/field, 30 creatinines/field.
● Ultrasound (6/2/2012): findings and findings consistent with emphysematous pyelitis of the left kidney with moderate foot-and-mouth disease associated.
There is a doubtful presence of air bubbles in the cortex of the middle third of the left kidney, in which case it would be emphysematous pyelonephritis.
Hepatic steatosis, grade 2.
Hepatomegaly
● Based on the ultrasound findings, it was decided to perform an urgent computed tomography scan: enlarged liver, with decreased density in relation to diffuse grade 2 hepatic steatosis.
No focal lesions were identified.
The gallbladder and bile ducts, pancreas, spleen, adrenal glands and right kidney were not found to be significant.
The left kidney was enlarged, edematous, with a globulous morphology and decreased or delayed uptake of the IVC, with moderate ectasia of the pelvis and proximal ureter, which showed hyperuptake of its walls.
Intrarenal or perirenal shunts are not observed, and a slight increase in the density of the perirenal fascia is the only finding.
No significant changes were identified in the distribution and morphology of intestinal and meso loops or in the vascular retroperitoneum.
Pelvis was unremarkable.
Not free fluid.
Diagnosis Septic shock of urological origin secondary to obstructive uropathy not yet affiliated.
Treatment During his stay in the ICU, he needs support with amines in the first hours of admission due to hemodynamic failure refractory to administration of serum therapy.
Two pools of platelets were transfused for examination and urinary diversion, with a left nephrostomy catheter placed, initially obtaining a snapshot kidney catheter-parous material.
Progressive clinical improvement with amine withdrawal 24-48 hours after admission.
Respiratoryly, stable at all times with O2 saturation 98-99% with Venous Signal at the beginning and later with glasses.
Sustained diuresis.
The patient was admitted to the ICU and evolved favorably, with improvement of analytical parameters, and he was transferred to the Urology ward on the fifth day.
Then the patient starts with sudden loss of vision bilaterally.
Once in the plant it is reviewed by the specialist of Ophthalmology, who diagnosed it with bilateral vitreous hemorrhage with posterior iris synechiae.
The patient was requested to have an ocular ultrasound, which reported bilateral endophthalmitis secondary to sepsis and a cranial computed tomography that ruled out central nervous system involvement.
The patient only saw occasional sounds.
The feverish patient in most of his admission (42 days in total), so serial cultures were extracted, being isolated Escherichia coli in hemocultive, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterococofaec
Since then, successive blood cultures and urine cultures have been performed, all negative.
All were successfully treated with antibiotics according to the antibiogram.
From the urological point of view, we began the study of left foot dilation and colitis by performing imaging tests, including abdominal radiography, ultrasound and computed tomography (CT), which reported only some abscesses in the kidney.
All of them were resolved and later imaging tests were performed.
The left kidney was observed without dilation, with proper placement of the nephrostomy catheter and without finding cause of obstruction.
We decided to perform a nephrostogram, where we observed a stop to the passage of contrast at the level of the lumbar ureter at the level of L3-L4, drawing a rounded shape suggestive of tumor radiotransparent lithiasis.
We requested another CT to try to clarify the etiology, and again we did not observe occupation of the colon.
Urine cytology was requested, which was reported as reactive cellular atypia with mild acute inflammatory▁exudate and Candida genus.
The Infectious Diseases Department considered it a sample contamination and did not treat it.
In view of the confusing findings of all diagnostic tests, the patient is programmed to perform a left endoscopy, a friable, non-bleeding, fibrinoid lesion at any level.
A sample for cold forceps biopsy was taken and a double J catheter was left.
Pathological anatomy of the material revealed inflammatory fibrin material with cocaceous colonies, absence of neoplasia and lithiasic crystals.
Together, the Urology, Ophthalmology and Infectious Diseases Departments decide to discharge the patient with follow-up visits.
At discharge the urological condition is controlled, but the cause of hydronephrosis is still unknown.
The Rectina Quir, but the patient remains blind, is pending review by the Rectinate Team.
