A 36-year-old male patient, born in Caracas and residing in Bir, Miranda state.
The disease began with an erythematous and pruritic▁papule on the lumbar region, which then ulcerated.
He came to several health care centers of his locality, treated him as a pyogenic infectious process with oral antibiotics, topical antiseptics and diagnosed cutaneous leishmaniasis localized cutaneous parasitosis for which he administered intramuscular BCG vaccine.
The ulcer did not improve and continued to increase in size, so he went to the Rural Endemics Consultation of the Tropical Medicine Department of the School of Medicine 'Luis Razetti'.
Epidemiological background: resides in B. abortus (pertense to Barlovento), endemic area of the disease with the highest incidence of cases to consultation.
The patient is a driver of a collective transport and spends most of the day sitting, leaning on his back.
Physical examination: patient in apparent good general condition; dark brown skin, with lesions of approximately 1x1.5 cm, in number five in the right deltoid region.
Oval ulcer of 8 x 9 cm in inferior border to the right lumbar region of erythema violet, irregular and raised, dry bottom with abundant secretion, painful ulceration and granulation tissue lesions.
She was given 500 mg of oral cefadroxile twice a day for 7 days.
Intradermal Leishmaniasis test and indirect fluorescent anti-leishmania antibodies were performed, and the smear by apposition of ulcer segments stained with Gimassa revealed the presence of Leishmania.
Treatment was indicated with two series of antiacidosis 10 days each, at a dose of 3000 mg/day intramuscularly, with 10 days of rest between each series.
The patient improved and subsequently developed residual lesions.
Five months later, he returned with tearful, blunt lesions in the area of the scar.
A second cycle (two therapeutic series) was administered at a dose of 4,500 mg meglum daily with improvement of the lesions.
The increase in serum aminotransferases was evident at the end of the second series of treatment.
The patient returns with ulcerative and cracked lesions, superimposed on vesicular lesions.
She was admitted to the Department of Infectious Diseases of the Adult at HUC.
A new feature was identified in the smear layer due to the apposition of the lesions.
Bioanalytical routine and cardiovascular evaluation were performed before treatment of ATL.
Amphotericin B was administered at a dose of 1 mg/kg-weight/day for 45 days.
The patient improved, the ulcers healed, and six months later his recovery was observed with persistence of the vesicular lesions.
A new evaluation was made at six months and she was discharged from the clinic.
