A 50-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department complaining of hemoptoic expectoration for one month, which in the last 15 days was accompanied by pain in the left side without pleuritic symptoms.
His personal history included: worker in the field, former smoker of 60 packs/year for a year and a half, with a stable partner for 6-7 years.
One year before, he was diagnosed with right basal pneumonia that resolved with antibiotic treatment at the outpatient level.
Her physical examination showed a good general condition, being conscious and oriented, eupneic at rest.
He had left supreclavicular lymphadenopathies of approximately 1 cm diameter, painless, non-adherent.
Upon pulmonary auscultation, the patient presented rhythmic tones with no murmurs, with generalized decrease in vesicular murmur at the pulmonary level.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible, without palpable masses or visceromegaly, and the lower limbs had no edema.
During her stay in the emergency room, an urgent laboratory test was performed, highlighting CRP: 107.4 mg/L and a Domicilia D 3.52.
Ag sample was obtained.
Legionella/Neumococci were negative in urine and sputum culture.
A chest X-ray was requested at the same time, with the following result: mass vs. mass in the pulmonary infiltrate with left pleural effusion. Given the findings in the tests, admission to the internal medicine ward was decided for the study of pulmonary embolism.
During his stay in the plant patient remains hemodynamically stable, affliction and, continuing with scarce hemoptoic sputum.
A study of lung mass was started, and the following differential diagnoses were proposed.
Given his history of an important smoker the first to rule out was a lung neoplasm; due to the elevation of the last digit D and the characteristics of the mass, the presence of pulmonary thromboembolism and the etiology of the pulmonary infarction were assessed.
Complete blood tests with tumor markers (CEA and specific neuronal enolase) and normal thyroid hormones were requested to start the study, requesting serology for tuberculosis, HAV, HBV, HCV, Toxomello.
While waiting for results, the study was continued, taking a cable sent around diagnostic anatomy that resulted in▁exudate, being sampled for microbiology and pathological anatomy;▁bronchoscopy revealed erythematous zone of the bronchus.
Median angio-CT of the pulmonary arteries ruled out thromboembolism at this level and in TAC-non-pelvic, the following result was obtained.
After this, the serology results were obtained: Mantoux, HBV HAV, HCV,▁Cytomegalovirus and toxoplasma were negative; however, it was positive for HIV.
In those with accustomed sputum samples and▁bronchoscopy to be analyzed, Anatomy did not observe cells suggestive of Neoplasia; however, it was isolated, by the part of Microbiology, in both samples Rho
After the findings, laboratory tests were ordered to determine HIV stage with the following results: HIV viral load:95573 cop/ml.
Lymphocyte T Coop.
CD3+CD4+ absolute: 225 cells/mcrL.
CD4/CD8 ratio: 0.17 HLA-B*27.*35.
Study of HIV resistance to antiretroviral drugs: No phenotypic resistance.
Finally, the patient was diagnosed with: -▁Pneumonia complicated with left pleural effusion due to Rhococcus equi.
-HIV infection stage B2.
Antibiotic coverage was initiated with vancomycin, rifampicin and intravenous zinc, and antiretroviral treatment with Atripla was initiated.
Due to the poor clinical response and the persistence of the radiological infiltrate and the elevation of acute phase reactants vancomycin is suspended and treatment with imipenem is initiated maintaining the intravenous antibiotic regimen for two weeks, with a favorable clinical outcome.
At discharge, the patient continued treatment with Rifampicin and Az ̄ during 6 months, with resolution of symptoms and improvement at the radiological level.
