A 58-year-old male, without known drug allergies, operated on 1985 due to lumbar disc disease, in an abscess treated for left inguinal hernia in 2012, with no medical history of interest or usual treatment.
He had been on vacation in Ibiza, where he was born, and had been habitually resident in the Dominican Republic for 8 years.
The patient was seen in the emergency room due to a general▁malaise of 4 days onset after landing on arrival in Spain. The next day she began feeling dysthermic, generalized arthralgia with mild anorexia, dizziness and asthenia.
On arrival, the patient had AT 148/89 mmHg, HR 110 bpm, T 38.8 oC and oxygen saturation 97% breathing room air.
On physical examination, the patient was in a regular general state, normohydrated, normal color and eupneic at rest with good distal perfusion.
Functional impotence was predominant in both shoulders, right wrist and external face of the left ankle, with great limitation of prism in both hands.
No signs of arthritis.
No rash.
Cardiorespiratory arrest and abdomen were unremarkable.
Establishment of normal cranial nerves, normal isochoric normal reactive middle pupils, without dysmetria or altered sensitivity, with great sensation of instability in the standing position.
Laboratory tests showed normal blood count, transaminate lactate and venous gas, CRP 4.16, and other normal parameters.
Urinalysis was normal.
Chest and abdominal X-rays were normal.
ECG showed sinus rhythm, no image of blockades or other acute changes in repolarization.
Arthralgia invalidating the case with fever when the patient returned from an epidemic zone to Chikungunya fever was diagnosed, but the initial suspicion was that.
After the first complementary tests on admission, thick blood smear and P-phalkoxyparum antigen were requested to rule out malaria, in addition to positive serology for HIV, Chikungunya, hemo, HBV, syphilis and syphilis.
While waiting for results, the patient was treated with NSAIDs only to control fever and pain.
On the third day of admission, the patient began vomiting with cold remnants, then began with rectal bleeding (up to 7 stools), along with dizziness and a decrease in hemoglobin from 14.9 gr/dl to 12.1 gr/dl
Urgent endoscopy was performed in the ICU due to the evolution of more than 24 hours with upper gastrointestinal bleeding. The objective was: active upper gastrointestinal bleeding, red blood cell of probable duodenal origin, single duodenal ulcer of 1 cm visible in the post-bar area.
Four hemostasis clips are placed in the periulcer zone.
Given the target lesion with risk of rebleeding, the patient was admitted for monitoring, with good subsequent evolution.
Control endoscopy ruled out signs of bleeding.
Once in the plant, just over 24 hours after the first endoscopy, the patient progresses satisfactorily with partial pain control without costly NSAIDs (Paracetamol 1g ev every 8 hours changing with Metamizole 8 hours).
At the time of discharge negative serology for HIV, HBV and Syphilis, in addition to a study of malaria and negative blood cultures, there is a lack of other results in the follow-up for internal medicine outpatient clinics.
Recommended treatment at discharge for pain control with Paracetamol alternating with Metamizole, along with heritable therapy for H. Pylori.
Serology would confirm a few weeks after the diagnosis of Chikungunya fever, with negativity for dengue fever.
