A 56-year-old woman, housewife, presented with a three-day history of vomiting, melena, bilateral epistaxis, and two spontaneous hematomas (in the right hypochondrium).
He also reported asthenia and adynamia.
She had a history of hypertension and hypothyroidism under pharmacological management.
He had denied the recent use of alcohol, tobacco or psychoactive substances.
He was admitted to the local hospital in a regular general state, with blood pressure 62/45 mmHg, heart rate 130 per min, respiratory rate 23 per min, with oxygen saturation of 90% and body temperature of 37.5°.
Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examination was normal.
With an initial diagnosis of hypovolemic shock secondary to upper gastrointestinal bleeding, intravenous crystalloids were started.
Blood count showed pancytopenia (3.5mm3 hematocrit), predominantly neutrophils 2.937/mm3, platelets 97.000/mm3, 34% hemoglobin 7 g/dl).
Since she did not respond to crystalloid treatment, blood products transfusion and inotropic support with vasoactive drugs were indicated.
Subsequently, the patient was referred to an institution of higher complexity with intensive care unit (ICU).
The patient was admitted to the institution with stable hemodynamics, blood pressure 100/75 mmHg, HR 112 per min, RR 22 per min, and oxygen saturation 93%.
On physical examination at admission the patient presented mucocutaneous abdomen noise, capillary filling less than 2 sec, moderate epistaxis, rhythmic cardiac extremities, with good intensity murmurs and no bases very weak.
A post-transfusion blood count showed leukocytes of 2,903/μL, predominantly neutrophilic, platelets of 14,000/μL, hematocrit of 30% and hemoglobin of 6 g/dl.
Coagulation time, transaminase bilirubin and direct Coombs were within normal limits, and LDH was slightly elevated.
An abdominal computed tomography (CAT) showed anemia due to mild stenosis of the lower extremities (a spleen of 14.5 cm).The diagnosis of acute idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura was suggested 40 mg.
day for four days.
The subsequent immunological study (complement C3, C4, total complement, rheumatoid factor, and plasma concentration of immunoglobulins A, G and M) were normal and the antinuclear antibodies (ANAs), anticardiolipin antibodies were negative.
Serology was requested for HIV, hepatitis B, C and VDRL, which resulted in non-refractory.
Blood PCR for cytomegalovirus was negative. No Epstein-abdominal-Epoxy virus serology was requested. She developed interstitial-abdominal fever, coughing within the first few days after the onset of the hemosteroids, and left recurrent chest pain.
Blood count showed leukocytosis of 35,250/μL and neutrophilia (81%), with red blood cell recovery, platelets and coagulation tests.
CRP was 11.2 mg/dL (normal value < 0.5 mg/dL).
A septate left pleural effusion was observed on both chest X-ray and CT, with no pulmonary infiltrate or consolidation.
Empirical antimicrobial management was initiated as a pleuropneumonia with piperacillin/tazo plus 4,5 gr IV.
every six hours, two blood cultures were taken by puncture.
Left ventricular tapering resulted in 350 cc of purulent fetid material that was cultured in hemocultive vials.
Gram stain of both hemocultives and pleural fluid showed gram-negative bacilli.
Small round▁grey colonies grew in chocolate agar, in an aerobic environment, after 24 hours of isolation, catalase and oxidase positive.
It was identified as P. canis by VITEK 2 Systems grading system: 03.01, with 100% certainty for the three samples.
No antimicrobial susceptibility study of the strain could be available. The patient was transferred to the ICU due to maintenance between 75% and 80% with a Venturi mask 50%, where a mechanical tube was intuited and pleural drainage was connected.
Given the microbiological result, both in hemocultives and pleural fluid, and the hemorrhagic manifestations upon admission, we considered the diagnosis of hemorrhagic septicemia and pleural empyema secondary to P. canis.
The antimicrobial agent was administered for 14 days with satisfactory clinical evolution, due to stabilization of vital signs and hemodynamics, as well as the possibility of extubation.
The patient and family were re-interrupted and denied recent contact with animals.
Unfortunately, after discharge, it was not possible to follow up the patient.
