Anamnesis 49-year-old male, born in Ecuador, living in Spain since 2002.
The only relevant antecedents were mono-rhein asthma from birth.
He came to the consultation for asymptomatic skin lesions of 15 years of evolution in the right foot, which have slowly grown.
They began in the heel region, extending posteriorly to the lateral and medial area of the foot, initially flattened and becoming more sensitive over time.
The patient reported that in this same location he suffered a traumatic wound many years ago when he worked as dependent in a store.
He had not remembered insect bites in the area, had not traveled abroad, and had neither come to the kitchens nor saunas.
The patient presented with well-defined erythematous, crusty, erythematous plaques, erythematous and crusty surfaces on the right foot, on the posterior area and erythematous and desquamative plaques, with external borders
She had no suppuration or pain on palpation.
There were no lesions in other locations and the general condition of the patient was good, without fever or systemic symptoms.
▁Complementary lesions A skin biopsy showed hyperkeratosis and marked acanthosis and irregular papillomatosis.
The dermis showed an inflammatory infiltrate composed of numerous histiocytes that formed small granulomatous structures without necrosis, in addition to lymphocytes, plasma cells and▁eosinophils.
Ziehl Neelsen stain was negative.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was isolated in culture (Löstein-Jensen medium).
Tuberculin test or Mantoux test was positive.
A chest X-ray showed negative calcified micronodules and sputum smear, which ruled out active pulmonary tuberculosis.
In addition, a general laboratory test was performed which was normal, with negative serology.
Diagnosis Tuberculosis cutaneous.
Treatment Since the mycobacteria was sensitive to the anti-tuberculosis drugs and completion of first line treatment was initiated, treatment was initiated with isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and subsequent months with isoniazid therapy, rifampicin, and rifampicin.
E. Claims A few weeks of treatment were detected in a control laboratory for elevated transaminases (ALT and AST) 5 times greater than the upper limit of normal, so treatment was discontinued.
After verifying the normalization of liver enzymes, treatment with etomidate and rifampicin was started again, followed by pyrazinamide.
The patient again underwent hepatotoxicity, which led to the discontinuation of treatment again.
After normalization of liver enzymes, rifampicin and etambuco were introduced, adding isoniazid one week later, which is the current treatment of the patient.
Skin lesions are improving, but slowly.
