A 68-year-old woman with hypertensive heart disease and pulmonary sarcoidosis was treated with corticosteroids (20 mg prednisone daily).
The patient complained of asthenia of 3-4 months duration, and from the previous week gait instability with deviation to the right; she had right hemiparesis (right upper limb strength 4/5 and normal lower right echophasia 3/5).
The laboratory tests showed normal red blood cell count and platelet count, normal white blood cells without left shift, ESR 5 mm/h, serum glucose biochemistry, negative serum glucose, negative serum IgG/dL cryptococcal antigen, HIV
Cranial computed tomography (CT) revealed a left parietal space-occupying lesion (LEL) of 2 cm of maximum axis▁surrounded by digitalis edema, which with contrast showed annular enhancement.
Since the brain image was compatible with primary neoplasia or metastasis, a CT scan of the chest and abdomen was requested, which were compatible with a primary tumor.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the skull revealed two LOEs, one left frontal and another right parietooccipital, which for their characteristics suggested brain abscesses as the first possibility.
Search was performed using a stereotactic approach to identify lesions in the left frontal lobe.
Differential diagnosis As the ethiopathogeny of a single brain abscess is usually extended by contiguity from a parameningeal focus, immunosuppression is a risk factor for multiple cerebral abscess dissemination.
After ruling out possible foci of distant infection (most frequently diagnosed as lung abscess, cystic fibrosis, empyema) and checking for the non-tropical origin of the patient (in this case, schistosomiasis, cysticercosis) among others.
Intracranial abscesses due to bacteria such as Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Stenotrophosis maltophilia are less frequent in immunosuppressed patients.
Involvement by S. aureus is usually the complication of endocarditis.
Brain abscesses due to Mycobacterium tuberculosis have also been described, but are rare, and may or may not be associated with disseminated infection.
Cerebral toxoplasmosis usually presents with changes in the patient's mental status, seizures, headache and focal neurological deficits.
The lesions, usually multiple, are located in the periventricular zone and contrast-enhanced ring.
In patients with probable toxoplasmosis, empirical therapy is justified in the absence of microbiological diagnosis when antitoxoplasma serology (IgG antibodies) is positive.
Patients with central nervous system (CNS) infection due to Lipids usually present bacteremia.
Although meningitis is the most common form of presentation, it has also been described in brain abscesses, encephalitis or rhomboencephalitis.
Brain abscesses due to Aspergillus usually present with concurrent lung involvement.
Clinically, patients develop altered mental status with or without seizures; the presence of neurological deficit and signs of meningeal irritation are less common.
Lesions are usually multifocal with predilection for the union between white and gray matter of the cerebral hemispheres (frontileum.arietales), but may also involve the cerebello or mesen.
It has a high mortality.
Cryptococcus can cause meningitis in immunosuppressed patients.
The presentation as cryptococcal brain abscess is almost exclusive of AIDS patients, and usually affects the basal▁ganglia.
CNS involvement by Candida occurs in the context of candidemia, and can occur in coinfections with Aspergillus.
Imaging tests usually consist of small multiple lesions with ring-enhancement after contrast, located in the white matter or deep areas of the gray matter.
CNS infection is not usually the main site of secondary infection (pulmonary infection is the gateway).
Skin or soft tissue involvement may be present.
Abscesses due to radiation failure can be loculated, individual or multiple (about 40%) and show ring enhancement after contrast.
Contrasts in anatieros (Dactylaria gene, chroconis, S. aureus), are rare pathogens that can cause single or multiple brain abscesses.
The affected patients also present cutaneous or pulmonary infection.
It may be difficult to decide if a bacteraemia is involved or not in the pathological process, since they can present as contaminants in clinical samples.
After brain biopsy, we started treatment with ceftriaxone, pyrimidazolee, and pyrimidazolee, according to expectations of microbiological and pathological results.
After 14 days, the patient did not present clinical improvement, with radiological worsening (growth of frontal lesion, without changes in occipital).
During this time the patient began with nausea and vomiting that caused hydroelectrolytic alterations; when attributing these symptoms to antimicrobial treatment, it was decided to substitute the gastrointestinal endoscopy with scarce improvement of metronidazole clindamycin,
The result of pathological anatomy ruled out brain tumor and cultures were negative.
After 28 days of antibiotic treatment, a cranial CT was performed without any improvement being observed; together with neurosurgery, we evaluated the attitude to follow, and a new stereotactic surgery was scheduled.
Antibiotics were suspended for one week to increase the profitability of the samples.
Minutes after the intervention were informed from microbiology of the visualization of abundant forms of Gram-negative bacilli (confirming days after culture) so we started treatment with ceftriaxone.
The microorganism was subsequently identified as strict strictosteroids.
Despite antibiotic treatment directed towards Noceftriaxone and Cotrimoxazole, radiologically the patient continues to worsen.
Since microbiology, ceftriaxone resistance was reported, we suspended it and added imipenem and linezolid to cotrimoxazole.
This caused an increase in gastrointestinal intolerance in the patient, with clinical and analytical involvement, being forced to discontinue treatment for 24 hours, and then restart it without cotrimoxazole, not presenting new symptoms.
In analytical control pancit severe neutropenia was observed, requiring transfusion of 3 patients with sepsis and focal abscesses, adding levofloxacin.
The patient continued to evolve favorably, with improvement of neurological symptoms and decrease of the size of brain lesions in imaging tests.
After 40 days of effective treatment according to the antibiogram, it was decided to change to monotherapy with levofloxacin orally and, after proven tolerance, he was discharged.
After one month of outpatient follow-up, the patient is at home with good clinical and radiological evolution;▁tolerates oral antibiotic treatment (levofloxacin 500 mg every 12 hours), and regular controls are performed in the external consultations of infectious diseases.
Final diagnosis Main diagnosis: " Cerebral abscesses due to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs" resistant to ceftriaxone, in immunocompromised patient with chronic corticosteroid treatment".
Other diagnoses: "Intolerance to ADD and cotrimoxazole" and "Pan severe according to linezolid".
