A 47-year-old woman, Italian, traveling tour in Argentina, living with her travel partner a rolling house.
They visited the Gran Chaco: Formosa region for 50 days (from May 8 to 25), Chaco de May 16 to June 9) to enter the Parque Nacional Rey, Salta National Park (from May 16 to June 9).
This is a transitional region between the tropical Andean forest (Yungas) and small areas of the mountain range.
They became aware by the guard service of the risk of being bitten by ticks.
On June 21, they arrived in the city of Tuán, where at night the patient had hyperthermia (40 °C), chills, headache, myalgia, anorexia and lower rash purcum upper limbs and upper limbs.
The patient was rapidly aggravated, with polyarthralgia, severe cutaneous-mucosal dryness, vomiting, tachypnea, confusional syndrome with delirium, sepsis (0.4 g/dl); severe urticaria (0.6 g/dl).
Parenteral antibiotic treatment was administered: ceftriaxone 2 g every 12 hours, ampicillin 1 g every 4 hours, and antiretroviral therapy 500 mg every 8 hours, and mechanical ventilation.
On the sixth day she had a fatal outcome preceded by tonic-clonic seizures, progressive hypothermia and shock.
During hospitalization, an ulcerative lesion was visualized, covered with a symyl tache noire 2.
His partner found that he was bitten, at least by a tick, in El Rey National Park.
All studies performed were requested for dengue (RT-PCR, nonstructural antigen –NS1–, IgM Mac ELISA), chikungunya (PCR real time), hantavirus (IgM Mac ELISA), influenza A (H.
Serial blood cultures and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures were negative (physical and chemical CSF examination was normal).
Brain computed tomography (CT): normal; chest CT: small bilateral pleural effusion, without signs of condensation; CT of the abdomen and pelvis: significant enlarged abdomen, without free fluid in the cavity.
Pelvis has no particularities.
Autopsy: splenic and hepatic tissue were isolated using the PCR technique for Ritsia spp., based on the detection of the gltA5 gene, which was positive.
Alignments in the BLAST program showed that the analyzed sequences had generalized estimating_Se38464 pb) homology strains of R8.100, cryptococcus6033 (coincidence mentioned CP9.175).
Internally, mild hepatomegaly, posterolateral pulmonary haemorrhage, erosive and hemorrhagic gastritis, ascites, congestion and marked swelling of both kidneys were found.
Microscopically, small and medium-sized vessels with variable endothelial damage and thrombosis in different stages were detected, with little inflammatory response.
The kidneys presented glomerular thrombotic microangiopathy and acute tubular necrosis, plus acute pulmonary edema and portal and centrilobular necrosis, which constituted the multiple organ failure.
