A 48-year-old woman complained of progressive tiredness of months of evolution, cutaneous dryness and constant dry cough.
After consulting your primary care doctor, she is referred to the Internal Medicine Department where she begins to study.
There were no records of interest except for the implantation of a definitive diagnosis of congenital atrioventricular block (DVD univentricular block) in 1997.
In 2008, the patient presented a first episode of local infection with generator extrusion, isolation of Staphylococcus epidermis and implantable device, so the new system was removed by percutaneous traction (PDPC).
During this extraction, a fragment of the cable is retained in the right ventricle (predominant), leaving a metallic thread that reaches the left▁subclavian artery.
Later, in 2014 he developed a new local infection in the generator pocket, and this time Corynebacterium amycolatum was isolated in puncture and aspiration of purulent fluid present at this level.
After performing screening for associated endocarditis (osculptive endocarditis and negative transesophageal echocardiography), a new CPT of the system was performed.
During this procedure, the atrial cable is removed, but tearing of the right ventricular free wall occurs when the ventricular cable is pulled out, with consequent pericardial tamponade and hemodynamic shock.
The clinical picture was resolved by conservative measures (volume support), without the need for open heart surgery, but with the abandonment of the ventricular cable, which was cut at the level of stimulation of the new femoral approach with a new device.
Chest X-ray: All retained systems prior to surgery can be observed, as well as functioning femoral insertion sites.
Treatment with teicoplanin IV was indicated for two weeks post-extraction and follow-up (periodic serial antimicrobial agents) was performed for 12 months (negative).
Since then, asymptomatic and with no incidences until the asthenia and cough referred to in the mid-2016, for which he began to have bone marrow anemia, a bone marrow function suggestive of folic acid and vitamin B deficiency with normal bone marrow function.
Due to the patient's history, it was decided to perform transthoracic echocardiography that showed no vegetation in the functioning leads or in the retained leads, nor valvular lesions.
Blood cultures were initially negative.
The patient continues to present persistent cough and develop hepatomegaly (8 cms below the costal arch), as well as obvious malignant edemas worsen.
These findings are discussed in the case of infectious diseases and the patient is admitted.
On admission, blood glucose and creatinine levels were below normal levels, renal function deteriorated with 1.53 mg/dl, C-reactive protein 39 mg/L, proteinuria 1.5 g/24 h and hematuria.
Blood count (3400/mm3) showed anemia with hemoglobin 6.8 g/dl (CMV: 112) and 60,000 platelets.
Differential diagnosis Initially a study of anemia was proposed without the possibility of diagnostic asthenia and initial months of evolution with screening for hemophilia and possible fever as a diagnosis of multiple myeloma or echocardiographic amyloidosis, which is also justified.
Regarding the deterioration of renal function in patients with hematuria and proteinuria, we can propose several diagnostic options such as mesangial capillary glomeruloneonephritis mesangi-capillary or a possible secondary system persistence of chronic infection (myelitis).
Amyloidosis, caused by the extracellular deposition of protein binding material, can manifest itself in a localized or systemic form and can be secondary to a chronic or infectious process.
In systemic amyloidosis, the kidney is affected in up to 80-90% of cases according to the series, significantly worsening the patient's prognosis1.
Hence, despite its rarity, it should be included in the differential diagnosis of a progressive renal failure, especially when severe proteinuria is present, as in our case.
We could also explain other symptoms presented by the patient such as asthenia, ascites, anemia, arthralgias... due to amyloid deposit in other tissues.
Another diagnosis to take into account was mesangial-capilary glomerulonephritis secondary to systemic infection, or also the possibility of a reno-pulmonary syndrome, as well as systemic lupus erythematosus glomerulone mixed deposits
All these conditions could have been diagnosed by determining the antibodies that cause the involvement at the pulmonary and renal levels and/or a renal biopsy that was initially scheduled.
However, taking into account the patient's personal history, we prefer to focus on the search for a possible recurrence of infection of the implanted electro-stimulation system that caused a probable pulmonary embolism secondary to septic cavity secondary to septic pulmonary embolism.
In our case, we had a previous echocardiography without vegetations and negative blood cultures.
However, the existence of etiological agents causing infective endocarditis with haemocultives should be considered, such as CoxiellaKn burnati, other organisms such as Bartonella spp., Legphidibacter spp., Chophibacter spp.
In these cases it is always convenient to take repeated hemocultives and it must also be taken into account that in infections on synthetic material, the grouping of microorganisms in biofilms can give rise to very silent blood manifestations.
On the other hand, the profitability of transthoracic ultrasound in the infection of these devices does not exceed 20-30%, so other diagnostic procedures should often be considered.
macogram established identical episodes of hemocultysis (such serial electrodes) kept them in previous fixed positions, with beta infection isolated in series belonging to two different days of Corynebacterium.
A transesophageal echocardiography was then performed, which showed complete destruction of the septal valve of the tricuspid valve, resulting in severe regurgitation, with visualization of small vegetations (less than 1 cm in size) in the right infra-metabolic cavity.
PET/CT: Intracardiac metabolic uptake.
Conjugating the clinical aspects of the patient, the history of previous manipulation of the system and repeatedly positive hemocultives for Corynebacterium amycolatum with a positive echocardiography, Dupíke stimulation secondary to cardiac infection was obtained.
Antibiotic treatment with linezolid, badmouth disease and adverse effects at the cutaneous and hematologic level (important pancytic), was initiated by cardiac surgery which was changed to teicoplanin (400 mg/24 h).
After the recovery of the spinal cord aplasia secondary to linezolid, the surgical intervention was carried out, which was uneventful and the retained cables and the femoral insertion stimulation system could be removed.
At the valve level, there was significant destruction of the tricuspid valve with total disappearance of the septal leaflet and involvement of the posterior leaflet, so we opted for valve replacement with biological prosthesis.
Finally, when treating a fully dependent stimulation patient, a definitive epicardial pacemaker was placed, with good▁pacing thresholds.
The patient's postoperative course was favorable with disappearance of signs of right failure and cough, progressive normalization of renal function and complete recovery.
Final diagnosis Finally, the diagnosis was reached by microbiological culture and universal genomic analysis of the extracted system.
Despite negative culture results after antimicrobial treatment performed, the genomic analysis by PCR of RNAr16S showed the presence of Corynebacterium amycolatum implanted in the cable of the second system of stimulation.
