Pain and inflammation left.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) 79-year-old male.
Personal history: no drug allergies.
Cardiovascular risk factors: Diabetes Mellitus type 2, Hypercholesterolemia, dyslipidemia.
Hyperuricemia and gout.
Ischemic heart disease revascularized on two occasions in the anterior descending artery in 2012 and 2017.
Nonvalvular atrial fibrillation with atrial appendage closure in February 2019.
Non-anticoagulated due to a history of upper gastrointestinal bleeding with clinical signs of melena by Dabigatran, with discontinuation of anticoagulants and maintenance of the patient double antiplatelet therapy.
Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.
Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome with nocturnal CPAP.
Surgical interventions: inguinal and umbilical hernia.
Left atrial appendage.
Baseline life: independent for basic activities of daily living.
Higher functions preserved
NYHA functional class III.
She lives with her wife.
She has three kids.
Good family support.
Usual treatment: ASA 100 mg/24 h, Clopidogrel 75 mg/24 h, Bisoprolol 5 mg/24h, Ramipril 5 mg/24h, Allopurinol 100 mg/24h Current primary care
Two days ago he came to the health center at the beginning of the pain and was diagnosed as a probable gout attack by treating with Neno as on other occasions.
Progressively, there is an increase in edema and redness of the left elbow, accompanied by general▁malaise, fever and decay, which is why she returns to the doctor.
Physical status Acceptable overall condition.
Aware, oriented and collaborating.
Temperature: 37-5oC.
TA: 135/75 HR 80 bpm.
Sat O2 98% a/a.
Hyperemia and edema of the left elbow with fluctuation at bursa level and increased temperature.
The mobility was preserved, although it limited the flexion-extension contracted by pain.
Don't ecchymosis.
No crepitation.
Good nail filling.
Radial fixation preserved.
Good forearm skin color with edema with fovea Clinical Judgment Infectious elbow bursitis.
Differential diagnosis: venous thrombosis in the upper limb in patients with non-anticoagulated AF.
Gout attack.
Plan of action and evolution Ceftriaxone 2 g IV was administered and the patient was referred to the hospital emergency department for evaluation with suspicion of bursitis, without ruling out thrombosis in patients with a history of infectious atrial fibrillation.
Analytical tests were performed in the emergency room with normal platelet count, CRP 100, D.
Patient was admitted to the emergency department with a rapid infectious episode within 48 hours and started oral antibiotic treatment at home with cephadroxyl 500 mg every 12 hours. Pending the appointment, the patient persisted with discomfort and pain.
Upon visiting the Infectious Diseases Clinic, FNAB was performed, extracting purulent content.
The patient was admitted for abscess drainage and intravenous antibiotic therapy.
Fluid culture: Staphilococcus Aureus Methicillin susceptible.
Joint fluid biochemistry: 170 600 cells, Polymorphonuclear 95%.
During admission cefazolin IV was administered with good clinical response.
Currently, the asymptomatic patient is discharged home.
