A 58-year-old male without known drug allergies with a history of hypertension.
Smoker and active drinker.
Cocaine abuser and presumably other toxics.
He has a mixed liver cirrhosis (infection by genotype 3A, never treated, and enolism) with a Pugh 12-C and multiple Child hydropic features HCV first in 2014, without other known features.
Compliance with domiciliary care in bedroom authentication 100mg, in bedtime, fixed bed rails, 40 mg per day, one sachet every 12 hours, clomizole, and other folic acid every 24 mg
She came to the emergency department with liquid stools of 4 days duration (up to 20 in the last 24 hours), nausea without vomiting and episodes of disorientation with frequent falls in the lower limbs, and increased swelling in the right limb.
Physical examination revealed that the patient was conscious but had no collaboration, disoriented, well hydrated and infused, eupneic at rest with basal oxygen saturation of 97%, and multiple ecchymosis in the arms.
Cardiac auscultation revealed normal heart sounds without murmurs.
The vesicular eruption is preserved with bilateral mucus without associated pathological noises.
Globulous abdomen, with ascites without tension and conserved peristalsis.
Both lower limbs present edema with fovea up to the root of the same limbs with signs of hypersensitivity in the right lower limb.
3.2 mEq/dL, 7.41 mg/dL, 112 mEq/L, alkaline sodium 112 mEq/L, 120 U/L
The blood count showed no leukocytosis, hemoglobin 12.30 g/dl, corpuscular volume 113.40, platelet count average 5/mm3.
Coagulation with prothrombin activity of 43%, prothrombin time of 1.63 with normal fibrinogen, Dí = 8.25 [0 - 0.5].
Chest X-ray showed no relevant findings.
Doppler ultrasound of the right lower limb was requested to rule out the presence of deep venous thrombosis, as well as an abdominal ultrasound in which a zyrotic liver with diffusely heterogeneous parenchyma without occupant lesions was observed.
Normal caliber port, permeable with umbilical permeability.
Cholecystomegaly up to 17 cm longitudinal diameter.
Distended bladder without evidence of lithiasis and abundant ascites.
On arrival to the emergency room he was febrile and blood cultures were extracted.
Differential diagnosis In this case, fever is the most common clinical manifestation of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and should be suspected in patients with liver cirrhosis who present fever, abdominal pain, impaired consciousness, hypotension or diarrhea.
It is important to note that patients with advanced liver cirrhosis are usually mildly hypothermic.
Diffuse abdominal pain is the hallmark of peritonitis.
However, pain may be very subtle due to the presence of ascites, and some patients remain asymptomatic.
Pain is usually diffuse and continuous, unlike abdominal wall stretch due to tension ascites.
On the other hand, the clinical sign of infection, which is frequently overlooked in patients with cirrhosis, is a subtle change in mental status, occurring in half of patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.
Both the infection itself and the hepatic manifestation may contribute to this problem.
Search for signs suggestive of hypersensitivity reactions should be considered as the most common cause of hypersensitivity reactions, mainly Streptococcus pyogen.
Infection with both methicillin susceptible and resistant S. aureus is also common.
Although less frequent, gram-negative bacilli infection deserves special attention, especially in immunocompromised patients due to Pasteurella abortcida,2. There has been any type of non-primary care for mosquito bites, fungi or other diseases.
Streptococcus agatekeeper is being described in adults infections mainly of advanced age or with diseases that imply a certain degree of immunosuppression such as diabetes or cirrhosis.
On the other hand, the main causes of acute infectious diarrhea include viruses (norovirus, rotavirus, adenovirus, astrovirus and others), bacteria (Salmonella spp, Campylobacter Escherichia coli, Clogella spp., Enoxychol stools).
Overall, most cases of acute infectious diarrhea are probably viral.
However, in cases of severe diarrhea such as our patient, the bacterial causes are responsible for most of them.
There is the possibility of primary septicemia, which usually courses with fever, hypotension or a change in mental status, the gastrointestinal tract is an important source of infection, and has been demonstrated by the isolation of various hepatic cirrhosis in patients.
The causes of the increase in bacterial infections include alteration of the barrier of intestinal permeability, bacterial overgrowth and reduction of host immune defenses.
Portal hypertension, by producing structural changes in the intestinal mucosa, facilitates the invasion of intestinal bacteria in cases of liver cirrhosis.
Integrating the previously described information, bacterial infection such as fever described in patients with liver cirrhosis usually begins with fever of sudden onset and chills, diarrhea and sometimes tarry stools secondary to bullous skin lesions, associated with intense blistering.
a Renal function and AHF were recorded 24 hours after admission by the Microbiology Department growth of V. vulnificus in haemodialysed patients, clocacilx- adjusted for emergencies.
The patient developed acute tubular necrosis and progressive worsening of the urinary tract congestion (within 8 hours of treatment with enemas), with persistent severe prerenal coagulopathy associated with vitamin K necrosis.
She was interconsulted with Nephrology and was not the candidate for invasive measures.
Despite the treatment with basal oxygen saturation serum therapy, antibiotics, bicarbonate, vitamin K, enemas every 8 hours... she presented an unfavorable clinical evolution with disconnection of the environment, a hypotensive tendency of 87%, anasarca 65.
Given the poor outcome and coagulaopathy, evacuating paracentesis was not performed due to the low expected benefit of it.
The family was informed at all times of the clinical situation of severity and poor prognosis, dying seven days after admission.
Final diagnosis Bacteriemia due to V. vulnificus without known epidemiological history.
Acute over chronic liver failure (MELD 21).
Hydrapic encephalopathy is a mixed manifestation in patients with cirrhosis of the etiology (HCV and enolic) with grade IV.
Acute renal failure of mixed etiology.
Multiorgan failure.
