This is a 53-year-old male.
Among its main antecedents highlights chronic seronegative polyarthritis diagnosed in 2010, for which he had performed several lines of treatment (Metrotexate in ascending doses, NSAIDs and corticosteroids) with poor clinical outcome.
Since this diagnosis she had presented several episodes of subacromial bursitis in the right shoulder and arthritis in the left ankle that required analgesic treatment, developed a fistula in both locations.
In 2011, she required admission for septic arthritis of the right shoulder, with isolation of Corynebacterium spp., being treated by arthrocentesis and prolonged antibiotic therapy.
Treatment was initiated several months later, after Etanercept (M previously negative), which was finally withdrawn due to ineffectiveness and inadequate response.
It is worth noting the situation prior to admission, since in the last months he had presented severe articular burs of marked inflammation at the level of both hands and lower limbs (right knee and both ankles) and the appearance of subcutaneous nodules.
The patient is admitted to Fe de 2013 after the findings of a scintigraphy with gallium performed in the private setting where a very active pathological process in the left ankle and pathological foci in the shoulder and right foot are described.
Reinterrupting him in a directed way on the articular clinic, states that for several months, this inflammation has been very accused at the level of the left ankle and both hands, as well as pain and intermittent suppuration of the fis shoulder path.
The appearance of painless subcutaneous nodules in the forearm that have increased in size is noteworthy.
He did not report other symptoms due to appliances, except asthenia.
At the initial physical examination the patient maintains a good general condition.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation and abdominal examination are normal.
The articular exploration revealed a fistulous orifice in the right shoulder, without exudation at the time of examination.
The elbows and wrists are respected, as well as both hip and hip joints.
In the right hand at the level of the second finger there is inflammation at the proximal interphalangeal level, with exudative orifice.
Attention is paid to the presence of several subcutaneous nodules, the largest of them located in the left forearm, without heat or redness, of semi-milled consistency, not adhered to deep planes.
In the left ankle inflammation and a soft tumor are observed at the meta-phalangeal joint of the second finger.
Finally, in the left ankle there is pain and inflammation and exudative suppuration through a fistulous tract.
In the initial laboratory tests both the blood count and the coagulation study did not show alterations, with a leukocyte count within normal values.
In the admission biochemistry, acute phase reactants, CRP, Pro-calcitonin and ESR are slightly elevated 5.83 mg/dL, 2.1 ng/dL and 85 mm/h respectively.
Superficial samples were taken from both fistulas, subcutaneous nodules described, and left ankle arthrocentesis was performed. The chest X-ray performed was reported as normal.
X-rays of the right foot and right hand showed arthritis with bone destruction of the metatarsophalangeal joint of the second finger and of the proximal interphalangeal joint, with additional site of abscess ankle-brachial
In addition, MRI of the right shoulder, subdeltoid infectious bursitis with deltoid muscle component and skin fistulization were performed.
The ultrasound of the forearm tumor describes a 5 x 3.5 cm heterogeneous collection superficial to the flexors and signs of tenosynovitis in the wrist.
These findings agree with the patient to take biopsies in the operating room of the left ankle and of the forearm tumor.
The differential diagnosis with severe osteoarthritis previously described, the initial syndromic judgment of the patient, relates the presence of subcutaneous nodules, tenosynovitis and destructive polyarthritis with signs of infection in an immunocompromised patient
The initial suspicion requires ruling out septic arthritis in a recurrent arthritis requiring a broad approach to the etiology of infectious microorganisms at this level.
The most frequent microorganisms in the differential etiologic diagnosis should include S. aureus, Streptoco spp, aerobic gram negative bacteria, Neisseria gonorroheae and other less prevalent microorganisms such as Mycoplasma spp.
In addition to the classic pathogens, slow-growing or less classic bacteria should be considered to prevent the joint from affecting bone insidiously, such as mycobacteria.
Another non-infectious diagnosis to consider is sarcoidosis, which is the cause of bone lesions in approximately 5% of patients, with joint disease present in 25-50% of cases of sarcoidosis, and is generally polyarticular.
Typical bone lesions are mainly in hands and feet, initially painful, with great bone destruction in advanced stages and the presence of skin changes is consistent with the diagnosis.
Our patient subsequently became discouraged.
Another diagnostic possibility is crystal-induced arthritis (knee and pseudogout), although in this case there is a good response to treatment with anticancer agents and the course is more acute.
It can also be reactive arthritis, an exacerbation of its underlying disease (with greater involvement of certain forms), or metastases from a neoplasic process.
All these pathologies were ruled out with the result of the complementary tests performed.
The special case and distinctive features are radica in the presence of subcutaneous nodules concomitant with articular symptoms, besides synovial involvement of the wrist and ankle.
Initially, the presence of these nodules is within their underlying disease and may be related to an exacerbation of their joint pathology or being the clinical manifestation of an underlying infectious process, so we requested a scheduled biopsy.
Subcutaneous nodules in immunosuppressed patients may be a possible early sign of disseminated infection with a poor prognosis.
There are different entities that could be the cause of these nodules so we must establish a differential diagnosis.
Among the options should be diseases that cause nodular lymphangitis, this syndrome is rare and may be caused by bacteria, mycobacteria, and viruses.
The clinical form may present with the presence of ascending nodules with or without lymphadenitis or proximal lymphadenitis.
Biopsy of the lesion is required for definitive diagnosis.
Specifically, P. aeruginosa has also been implicated as the etiologic agent of nodules, although they are more characteristic in the lower limbs.
There are other processes caused by nodules, such as nodular psoriasis, secondary syphilis, or bacillary angiomatosis.
A rare entity described in the literature that causes synovial involvement is the infection of the tendinous sheath by mycobacteria.
The clinical presentation is usually the presence of an indolent mass along the tendon associated with pain and limitation of movements.
It is a rare form of extrapulmonary involvement by M.tuberculosis.
This infection of the tendon sheath often occurs in the hand, foot, ankle and wrist, especially affecting the flexor compartments.
Infection of the tendon sheath may result from dissemination of the bacillus.
As part of the differential diagnosis in samples sent to microbiology (ankle and tumour), a complete study of mycobacteria and other defective growth bacteria is required.
In addition, Mantoux is requested and an extended analytical study is performed.
The tests requested are coming and inform us from the microbiology laboratory that in samples received from the ankle, direct smear is positive and in those cases where the lesions are located in the operating room, aspiration of nodules is positive.
The tuberculin test performed was positive (20 mm x 15 mm), supporting the diagnosis.
The histology of the biopsy obtained in the operating room reports ulceration with necrotizing granulomatous inflammation, the presence of epithelioid macrophages, Langhans type giant cells and caseous necrosis, with perivascular lymphocytes.
The patient was discharged from the hospital with tuberculous treatment▁combining Rifampicin + Isoniazid + Pirazinamide + Etambutol at a standard dose during the first two months.
It is reviewed monthly in outpatient clinics with evident improvement of skin lesions, almost completely disappearing nodules.
Polyarthritis has decreased and fistulous tracts of the shoulder and knee are in the resolution phase, with good appearance and no exudative component.
Two months later, Etambutol and pyrazinamide were suspended, completing one year of treatment with rifampicin and isoniazid, with excellent tolerance and almost complete resolution of the lesions.
Final diagnosis Osteoarticular and soft tissue tuberculosis in patient with severe seronegative arthritis in immunosuppressed patient.
