Dyspnoea, cough and fever.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Anamnesis: 84-year-old male who came to our consultation complaining of dyspnea with cough, increased thermo-white expectoration of femish.
The most relevant personal history included long-standing COPD treated with home-based Oxygen therapy, hypertension with hypertensive heart disease and congestive heart failure, as well as benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Currently, sintrom anticoagulation.
Location: the patient was in good general condition, well hydrated and perfused and was conscious, oriented in the three partners.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed snoring and wheezing dispersed in both lung fields together with a 90% SaO2 and marked respiratory work with traction and tachypnea.
Temperature at 38oC.
The lower limbs were not edematous or with signs suggestive of deep vein thrombosis.
▁Complementary tests: an outpatient chest x-ray was performed in a health center, showing right lung condensation and left pleural effusion.
Thus, and given the examination presented by the patient, it was decided to refer the patient to the emergency department of a reference hospital for the expansion of analytical tests.
Blood count and blood biochemistry were requested together with serology for pneumococcus, legionella pneumofila.
Serology for the previous microorganisms was negative.
A complete blood count showed 15000 leukocytes with the rest of the normal blood series.
As for biochemistry, a CRP stood out in 20.45, with renal function as well as the rest of the equipment normal.
Family and community approach Living with their wife and is independent for BADL and IADL.
It has good family support, with medium-low socio-economic level.
She regularly monitors her chronic pathology in a health center.
Clinical judgement (problem-listed, differential diagnosis) Clinical judgment 1: Community acquired pneumonia.
Clinical judgement 2: Heart failure.
Plan of action and evolution Empirical antibiotic treatment was adjusted and the patient was referred to a referral hospital, where he finally entered after confirming acute exacerbation of community-acquired pneumonia, as well as secondary COPD insufficiency.
The patient evolved satisfactorily after an 11-day hospital stay, being discharged with treatment adjustment and follow-up by the pulmonology department.
