Anamnesis A 67-year-old male patient with ciprofloxacin intolerance and allergy to contrast agents immunosuppression and topical iodine.
She was diagnosed with end-stage chronic renal failure secondary to saturnism and on peritoneal dialysis since May 2005.
Total left hip prosthesis in April 2005 and right hip prosthesis in May 2006.
Hypercholesterolaemia and nephrogenic anaemia treated with erythropoietin.
Kidney transplant from a functioning cadaver donor, urinary tract infection by Acinetobacter baumannii and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia in relation to anticalcineurinics in May 2007.
Post-transplant urinary fistula was treated with a double J catheter and a bladder catheter. Stenotroph drainage defect was isolated in September 2005 in Candida albicans.
This was a significant finding in the middle portion of the renal artery treated with angioplasty and endovascular stent in December 2007.
On March 10, 2008, the patient came to the emergency department with a clinical picture of 72 hours of evolution characterized by progressive deterioration of general condition and abdominal pain, with preserved diuresis and no fever.
Arterial hypertension - discharge 130/70 mmHg
Afebril.
Weight: 75 kg.
Aware and oriented.
Acceptable general condition.
No goiter or lymphadenopathy, no jugular engorgement.
Heart attack, mental illness, mental illness, and mental illness.
Abdomen blando, tender to palpation at the right iliac graft site.
Extremities: no edema, no data of deep venous thrombosis, pulses present.
▁Complementary tests • Analytical: urea 276 mg/dl, sodium 124 mEq/l, potassium 6.2 mEq/l, plasma creatinine 6.24 mg/dl, hemoglobin 14.8 g/dl, hematocrit 44.8 mm, 11.
• Abdominopelvic ultrasound: dilated common foot and ureteral renal graft without objectifying the cause.
• Chest and abdominal X-ray: no abnormalities.
• Urocultive: negative.
Diagnosis Obstructive renal graft uropathy.
Treatment and evolution Admission was decided for study and treatment.
On March 13, 2008, prior to the placement of a percutaneous ultrasound-guided nephrostomy, in addition to pyeloureteral dilation in the parainjection zone, a pulsatile mass was observed, due to the presence of a
A new Doppler ultrasound showed an image compatible with an iliac pseudoaneurysm.
An arteriography with gadolinium was performed, which showed a 5-6 cm pseudoaneurysm of the graft artery, with stent displacement, which was in the area of the anastomosis.
Emergency surgery was performed prior antibiotic prophylaxis with vancomycin and imipenem.
A transplantectomy and a femoral-femoral bypass were performed.
A few hours after▁arriving at the resuscitation unit, the patient suffered hemodynamic instability with severe anemia.
It was decided to perform a surgical revision, finding a large amount of blood in the abdominal cavity and incoercible bleeding, which is not controlled with hemostatic maneuvers, so the packing and closing maneuver is performed.
The patient died 3 hours after reintervention for hypovolemic shock in relation to possible disseminated intravascular coagulation.
