Anamnesis A 48-year-old woman, without known drug allergies, smokes 20 cigarettes a day, consumes about 80 g of alcohol a day and sporadically cocaine.
Asthma was diagnosed in patients treated with inhaled corticosteroids.
Independent and active at work.
The patient presents at home a sudden level of consciousness along with involuntary movements of the extremities of one hour duration suggestive of generalized tonic-clonic epistaxis status.
A few hours before the episode she reported alcohol abuse.
Upon arrival to the emergency department, a situation of status persists, requiring intravenous treatment with▁benzodiazepines (10 mg diazepam) and levetiracetam (1,000 mg), with cessation of the episode.
The patient was admitted to the ICU for hemodynamic and respiratory stabilization with orotracheal intubation.
Physical examination revealed blood pressure at baseline was 124 mmHg, heart rate 120 bpm, 90 mg/dl, and 98% had glycaemia on glycaemia.
The general examination was normal.
Neurologically he was in post-critical state, with a Glasgow scale score of 8/15 (O4V1M3), without neurological focus or meningeal signs.
Additional tests • General analysis: marked macrocytic anaemia (haemoglobin 12.2 g/ dl, MCV 104
Total cholesterol 218 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 119 mg/dl and HDL cholesterol 82 mg/dl.
Urine output was measured without relevant findings.
• Serology: hepatitis B and C virus and human immunodeficiency virus negative.
• Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 113 bpm, ST-segment elevation in V1 to V3 with T-wave inversion in these leads and QT interval of 560 ms. • chest X-ray:
• basal and contrast-enhanced brain CT: no relevant findings or pathological enhancements.
• Initial transthoracic echocardiography showed severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction with an ejection fraction of 25-30%.
The▁contractility was preserved at the level of the basal segments with generalized akinesia of the rest of the segments.
▁Right ventricle and valves were normal.
Mild anterior pericardial effusion with fibrinous content was also observed.
• Coronary angiography was performed, with mild vasospasm of the anterior descending coronary artery, which resolved with intravenous nitroglycerin infusion.
• Electroencephalogram at 48 hours: tracing within normal limits.
Electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevation and T wave inversion in V1 to V3.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging showed signs of intramyocardial edema.
Diagnosis Tako-tsubo cardiomyopathy secondary to status epi.
Treatment Antiepileptic drug maintenance therapy with levetiracetam was maintained, with good response, without the patient experiencing any new seizures.
The patient was treated with a suprasitutive aminenic acid B1, B6, B12 and with folic acid. Prophylaxis of alcoholic deprivation with thiaprizal and dipotasic clorazepate was initiated.
During admission, the patient showed progressive improvement in consciousness level in the first 24 hours, with no neurological and hemodynamically stable focus, and extubation could be performed.
Renal function and ionic changes were normalized in the first 48 hours.
Hypertransaminasemia, macrocytic anemia and thrombocytopenia persisted, most probably of an alcoholic origin, suggesting chronic liver disease.
Both the elevation of cardiac enzymes and the changes in electrodes and electrodes were within normal limits within 72 hours.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging showed globally preserved systolic function and signs of intramyocardial edema in the anterior face and left ventricular septum that reinforced the diagnosis of transient apical dyskinesia syndrome.
After gadolinium administration, no gross necrosis or myocardial fibrosis were observed.
Due to the tendency to vasospasm observed in the coronary angiography, it was decided to add treatment with calcium antagonist at discharge.
