A 43-year-old woman with a severe bedside cough in the port of Lirquén was referred from a peripheral hospital with a history of sudden onset of high fever dyspnea, chills,▁malaise.
He had a history of smoking 20 packs/year and reported progressive dyspnea of one year of evolution accompanied by dry cough.
On physical examination, the patient was febrile, with a temperature of 38°C, polypnea, peripheral tapering and digital clubbing.
Chest examination showed bilateral Velcro-type crepitations.
The general laboratory showed a LDH of 670 IU/l, severe hypoxemic respiratory failure with a PaO2 of 51.9 mmHg breathing 50% supplementary oxygen; an alveolar-arterial difference of 4.940 mm Hg reactive protein of PO2
Renal and hepatic function were normal.
The chest X-ray at that time showed a diffuse bilateral infiltrate without pleural effusion or cardiomegaly and the echocardiogram showed only a slight dilatation of the left atrium with good biventricular function.
A preliminary diagnosis of multilobar pneumonia of viral etiology was made, since it was mid-June and therefore the influenza season in our country.
Treatment was initiated with oseltamivir, bronchodilators and despite the clinical guidelines against▁steroids at a dose of 100 mg of cortisol ev every 8 h. Subsequently, for both influenza and other viral panel tests negative for HIV.
A high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scan of the chest showed diffuse ground-glass attenuation, bilateral with diffuse septal thickening, pattern known as crazy paving, with preservation of the lung volumes.
The patient remained in respiratory failure and faced with a probable exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, received three boluses of 1 g of methylprednisolone followed by prednisone at a dose of 1 mg/kg daily, with no improvement 23 days.
Functional examinations showed a mild restrictive pattern in the mental disorder with a FRC of 1.87 l (69%), an FEV1 1.86%) and a severe exercise limitation of 68%, with a final hemoglobin level of only 258 (AU)
On this occasion, it was impossible to conduct a carbon monoxide diffusion study (CLD).
A bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was normal and no germs or cells were found in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.
A severe patient, who did not respond to the established treatment, underwent surgical videotape biopsy.
The Protein Mandatory Architecture with alveoli filled with eosinophilic amorphous material was demonstrated in the specimen showing positive staining with▁Periodic Acid of Schiff (PAlarS), findings consistent with
The postoperative course was antibiotic stenosing requiring support with non-invasive mechanical ventilation; he underwent bilateral pneumothorax installing bilateral pleural drainage increased inflammatory parameters with an image of cavitary consolidation in apical segment of the left lower lobe base.
Once recovered from the acute condition, the patient underwent total lung lavage (TLC) under general anesthesia using 14 l of saline solution for each lung according to the protocol recommended by international guidelines, without obtaining changes in both the functional parameters.
In fact, post-PTL chest HRCT was practically the same as that obtained at admission.
One month post-PTL, the patient maintained a PaO2 of 53.3 mmHg with an FiO2 of 50%; the VFC had decreased to 1.51 l (50%), FEV1 to 1.47 l was reduced by 27% in DLCO30
This situation persisted for several months, a fact that prevented him from performing the minimum activities of a normal life depending on the use of supplementary O2.
In this patient, given the imaging context, the differential diagnosis to consider was wide, but it was very important to rule out an acute exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, due to the high morbidity and mortality that this year had led to hospitalization, especially considering a case.
However, despite this time, the pulmonary volumes were respected, the tomographic pattern was diffuse, with no subpleural predominance, there were no bronchiectasis by traction, basal peak gradient or panalization.
There were no elements either to think of cardiogenic pulmonary edema, since there was no history of heart disease an anodyne echocardiogram and the images did not show bilateral cardiomegaly and was negative for circulatory infiltrate or uniform viral panel current picture shows pneumonia.
There were no immunosuppression elements, there were no cysts or pneumothorax as to consider a▁Pneumocystis jirovesii pneumonia and the HIV test was negative.
Finally, in view of a crazy paving pattern, we should also consider the diagnosis of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage, but in this patient there was never hemoptysis, progressive anemization alterations in the renal function and the bronchus.
Treatment After failure, and obtaining informed consent from the patient and the local ethics committee of our hospital that reviewed the alternatives proposed in case of the alternatives proposed for nontraditional measures of oxygen supplementation with high weekly lavage volume, Performing high ambulatory blood pressure.
Each wash was performed by impacting the instrument on the lobar segment to be treated, instilling successive aliquots of 20 ml of CFP through the working channel until the aspirated liquid was clear.
The first lobe to be washed was the right upper lobe, followed by left upper division (left upper lobe and middle lobe) and left lower lobe.
An average of 250 ml of the FFP was used during each procedure, which lasted an average of 60 min.
The effect of PFC instillation is observed in the left tube and shows the alveolar fluid aspirated after instillation of physiological solution.
The right side shows the fluid recovered immediately after instillation of PFC.
After the washing cycles were completed, the treatment was supplemented with 5 sessions of plasmapheresis with the intention of removing the possible targets of anti-tuberculosis antibodies, which complemented the non-granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF).
The results were surprising and were obtained almost immediately.
The gas exchange was normalized, with a PaO2 of 89.9 mmHg breathing room air, the alveolar-arterial mean difference of PO2 increased to 19 mmhg, and the initial DLCO values increased to almost 75% in relation to
The HRCT scan of the chest showed almost complete disappearance of the alveolar infiltrates and among the biochemical results, LDH decreased to 154 IU/l.
During the pulmonary lavage procedure with PFC, each time this product was instilled, there was a significant increase in oximetry, which decreased when aspirating the instilled protein from the base of the protein, but maintaining its constant value.
The patient was discharged home, asymptomatic after the fifth session of plasmapheresis.
One month after discharge, the patient returned to his usual activities without limitations.
Seven months after the procedure, the patient was asymptomatic, maintaining normal exercise capacity, without the need for medication.
Lung function continued to improve, with a VFC of 2.89 l (100%) and an FEV1 of 2.27 l (92%) and a 6MWT with a distance walked of 465 m without desaturation.
These values are maintained one year after the washing with PFC and plasmapheresis sessions.
