A 42-year-old male.
No RAMS.
Smoker.
Ex-toxicoman.
Chronic pharyngitis with recurrent infections of the bilateral glue ulcer.
He doesn't do any treatment.
She came to the emergency department for an autolytic attempt to find bilateral purulent glue ulcer, hematuria, renal failure (Cr 6 mg/dl) and anemia (Hg 2.7 g/dl).
The decision was made to transfer the patient to the ICU.
Bilateral hydronephrosis was found, bilateral nephrostomy was performed with subsequent onset of hemofiltrations.
The patient presented with diarrhea syndrome that required transfer to M. Interna.
M.I. Sensing was preserved.
Pathways to the settlement
Afebril.
PA: 110 mmHg.
ACP and abdomen.
LL: edematous.
Paths present.
Supurating glue cellulitis extending to the perianal region.
Additional tests (to be highlighted): normocytic anemia (Hg 8.5 g/dl).
Creatinine 2.27 mg/ dl.
Potassium 6.4 meq/l.
CRP 6.42 mg/dl.
24-hour urine protein excretion: 1596 g/24 h. Serum PCR for Polyomavirus BK: positive.
The patient had a diagnosis of glottic ulcer called Badoid Fragilis.
Quantification of light chains: kappa 596 mg/dl, lambda 297 mg/dl.
Hormonal study: ACTH 55 pgr/ml, cortisol at 8 hours 9.41 mg/dl, 24-hour urine free cortisol 6.58 mg. Aldosterone < 6.25.
Serology, hemocultives, mantoux and lowestein in urine, celiac profile, thyroid and autoimmunity study: negative.
EKG: anoddy.
Chest and abdominal X-ray: no findings.
TAC: bilateral pleural effusion, bladder clots and free intraperitoneal fluid.
Colonoscopy: nonspecific.
Abdominal ultrasound: bilateral hydronephrosis.
Ascites.
ENG: polyarthritis demyelinating neuropathy.
Echocardiogram: normal.
No evidence of cardiomyopathy.
PAMO: 4.6%â–eosinophils, 3.6% plasma cells, and increased iron in MFS and villo: interconsultations were requested to the different specialties during hospitalization.
The clinical suspicion of amyloidosis was confirmed by rectal biopsy and skin biopsy of glue ulcer that were positive for AA amyloid, with subsequent sampling and confirmation in the other organs.
The evolution was favorable with fluid retention, hydrolysis, and consolidation.
Clinical case: multisystem amyloidosis secondary to chronic suppurative hydroadenitis.
Plan of action: the patient goes to medical check-ups in M. Interna.
He is currently on Adalimumab therapy after approval by the European Commission in 2015 for cases of chronic HS with inadequate response to conventional treatments.
