A 48-year-old patient, resident in Zamora, with a history of monocytic ascites of unknown etiology despite two exploratory laparoscopy, with a peritoneal sample taken informed of reactive mesothelial hyperplasia.
In one of the multiple paracentesis evacuators is found in the ADA (adenosine deaminase) positive ascitic fluid.
The Mantoux test was also performed, and the anti-tuberculosis treatment was started.
Months later, the patient was monitored for thrombopenia gravis.
A bone marrow biopsy was performed, compatible with ITP.
Despite treatment, the patient continued with platelet count, presenting epistaxis that did not stop after treatment, indicating urgent lidectomy.
On admission, a biopsy of the peritoneum and a palpable axillary ganglion was obtained, where intense peritoneal mesothelial hyperplasia associated with intense and diffuse reactive▁lymphoid follicular hyperplasia was observed.
The patient was readmitted due to acute bilateral fever and DVT in left hemisphere, so LMWH was started at therapeutic doses.
The case was referred to the Hospital La Paz in Madrid to complete the study.
He reported fever, evening sweating, severe asthenia with arthromyalgia, left basal pleuritic pain with dysneic sensation and frequent dry cough.
During admission, a diagnostic paracentesis was performed for dense and vesicular fluid, with a biochemical profile similar to that analyzed in Zamora, with a negative culture and B.A.A.R.
The chest CT angiography showed replenishment defects in relation to acute pulmonary thromboembolism.
She presented with massive left pleural effusion with compressive atelectasis of the LII, pathological mediastinal lymphadenopathy of prevascular location.
The lymph node sample obtained in Zamora was reviewed and informed as a castlemanoid process, with reactive mesothelial hyperplasia, without malignancy data.
The cytokine profile, with high levels of IL-6, supports the diagnosis of Castelman's disease (CDM); while serology for VVH8 and VHI was negative (140H6).
After starting▁steroids, immunoglobulins and Rituximab showed clinical, laboratory and radiological improvement.
He was readmitted a few months later due to acute obstructive thrombosis of the right jugular vein and partial thrombosis of the right▁subclavian artery.
The progression of the disease with Rituximab is started with Tocilizumab 15 days after the initial treatment with corticoid therapy.
