Miguel is a patient who began treatment a few months ago in the Dual Pathology Center, a hospital resource in which the first referral occurs progressively in isolation, which over the days is becoming less rigid.
Miguel is 24 years old, works as a commercial telephone company and has completed primary studies.
The patient was referred from a specialized outpatient care center in order to follow a treatment program for cocaine and cannabis dependence, as well as to assess the possible existence of dual pathology, since they always detect certain suspicacia susceptibility.
This is a voluntary admission motivated by the assessment of the lack of control over consumption.
Cannabis consumption began at 12 years old, presenting abuse criteria from the beginning.
At the age of 15, consumption increased to 10-12 daily servings, a consumption that has continued to date.
She has been using intranasal cocaine since she was 18 years old with a weekend pattern.
At 22 years old the pattern changes, increasing the frequency and quantities of consumption.
Since February 2005 she has been treated in an outpatient facility.
At these times, an outpatient treatment begins in a therapeutic community in which voluntary discharge is requested within a week.
He also occasionally consumes alcohol, occasionally associated with other substances.
Treatment at admission consists of aripiprazole 15 mg/day and gabapentin 600 mg/day.
Other medical history included multiple trauma from a traffic accident three years ago (without TBI) and pulmonary tuberculosis resolved after treatment two years ago.
Nasal septum injury caused by cocaine inhalation
Psychopathological examination during admission does not show important variations: It is conscious, oriented in time, space and person.
Approachable and collaborating, although somewhat restless.
Fluid and coherent discourse.
There are no sense-perceptual alterations, nor alterations in the form or content of thought or in the sphere of the self.
Ethymic and emotionally reactive, although with floating anxiety.
There were no cognitive alterations that reduced their judgment capacity.
It minimizes the consequences of consumption, with control fantasies about it.
Partial awareness of disease.
No self-heteroaggressive ideation.
Limitated introduction capacity.
Empty contact.
Clinical judgement Mental and behavioral disorders due to cannabis use (F14.2).
The Miguel building unit was adapted to the unit without problems with its partners or with the team.
He started to participate in the therapies correctly, but continued with fantasies about the control of consumption, showing himself ambivalent about his decision to abandon cannabis.
In the last week, there was a progressive increase in anxiety despite the adjustment in the pharmacological treatment to try to counteract it.
Finally, the tenth day repeatedly expresses its decision to leave the centre.
He says he prefers his mother's food to that of the hospital.
They understand the consequences of their discharge, but do not admit asking for it to continue consuming.
The absence of psychopathology during admission leads us to think that supicacia and other psychopathological disorders suspected from the outpatient clinic may be due only to cannabis use and not to an underlying pathology.
The patient was discharged from the hospital on a voluntary basis.
