Anamnesis A 41-year-old woman presented with changes in her usual tension-type headaches for 3 months.
Those who initially described as holocraneal and mild became left hemicraneal, oppressive and of moderate-severe intensity.
mild acetaminophen relief and minimal tactile pain and persistent vomiting sensation in the left hemifield, more pronounced in the fronto-orbital area, with photophobia and sonophobia, as well as
Cranial computed tomography (CT) was performed in the emergency department, with no abnormalities, and an outpatient brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed in another center shortly after the onset of the described clinical symptoms, which was reported as normal.
Given the frequency of headaches, treatment with amitriptyline was started with clinical improvement in the following month, although with persistence of allodynia and facial pruritus.
She came to the emergency department again due to an increase in the intensity of left hemicraneal pain in the last 2 weeks with a score of 8 on the visual analogue scale (VAS).
It is described as pulsatile, associated with photophobia and sonophobia, although pruritus and hypersensitivity of the left periorbital and frontoparietal area are the most disabling.
Small tactile stimuli she feels intense stinging, making it impossible to support her head on that area.
The decrease in visual acuity in the left temporal hemifield progressed to the absolute loss of vision by this eye (did not distinguish even lights or shadows).
In addition, he reported difficulty seeing normally by the temporal hemifield of the right eye and pain with eye movements.
She suffered nausea, vomiting, worsening headache with Valsalva maneuvers or interference with sleep.
Fever or other infectious symptoms were present, as well as recent travel.
He denied sphincteric alteration.
The patient remembered that, when headache and visual symptoms began, she had fallen asleep in the breast and left brachial region for several weeks, which resolved spontaneously and completely.
Physical examination left eye amaurosis.
Visual acuity of 0.8/1 in the right eye with temporal hemianopsia and dyschromatopsia.
Relative afferent pupillary defect in the left eye.
Reactive right-ear pupil.
Normal eye fund.
Extrinsic preserved eye movements, without restrictions although referring pain when moving the left eye.
Allodynia in the theoretical territory of the first branch of the left trigeminal (V1) branch.
Hypoesthesia in the left C2-C4 territory.
Normal rectum.
Additional tests • Blood count, haemostasis, hepatic profile, lipid profile, renal profile, folic acid, acute phase reactants, hormone (TSH, T4) and vitamins (B12, A, E, D, acid)
• Immunochemistry: slight increase of IgM (339 mg/dl, normal range 49-302), rest normal.
No oligoclonal bands in serum.
• Normal Autoimmunity Study.
• Serum serology (HBV, HCV, syphilis, Borrelia, Brucella, HIV, cryptococcal antigen) negative.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF): Biochemical with mild increase in protein content mg/dl, normal range 10-30) without cells.
ADA negative.
Albumin ratio and normal IgG index.
No oligoclonal bands were detected in CSF.
Serology (syphilis, Borrelia, Brucella, cryptococci) negative.
• cervical spine MRI: signal alteration in the T2 sequence in the cervical spinal cord at C1-C2 levels located mainly in the right posterior cord region and left lateral region compatible with demyelinating lesion.
Cervical magnetic resonance imaging, T2 sequence, longitudinal section where hyperintensity is seen at C1-2 level, compatible with demyelinating lesion.
• Brain MRI: abnormal hyperintensity in FLAIR sequences that affects the intracanalicular portion of the optic nerve on the left side in its posterior portion and extends to the chiasm.
Brain MRI sequence FLAIR, coronal section.
Hyperintensity is seen in the optic chiasm.
• Visual evoked potentials (VEP): absence of response with stimulus from the left eye.
Normal in the right eye.
• Anti-acuaporin 4 (anti-NMO) positive antibodies
Diagnosis Autoimmune optic neuropathy (Devic's disease).
Treatment After administration of 1 g of methylprednisolone daily for 7 days and six sessions of plasmapheresis, the patient experienced a complete improvement in visual acuity of the right eye.
However, with the left eye he was only able to distinguish lights and shadows.
She was discharged with 50 mg azathioprine every 12 hours and 50 mg cough every 24 hours.
The patient was admitted to hospital on two occasions due to blurred vision in the right eye, and required several cycles of methylprednisolone with complete resolution of the symptoms of the eyebrow.
Vision through the left eye remained similar to the first admission, with a distinction only of lights and shadows.
Allodynia and headaches improved with increasing doses of tomato and reintroduction of amitriptyline, but did not completely disappear, and the pain unit had to assess it.
