A 14-year-old male patient with no morbid history.
The patient was seen in the emergency room due to an intermittent right omalgia of seven days duration associated with stiffness and neck pain.
In the last three days, an inspiratory cough and intermittent feverish sensation were added.
A PA-L chest X-ray was requested. Given the clinical picture and the findings on the X-ray, it was decided to perform a computed tomography (CT) of the chest.
Coronal fixation on the axis of the prestressed musculature
CT of the neck in the bone window and sagittal reconstruction.
The patient was hospitalized and a neck magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was requested for better characterization.
STIR sequence.
Axial, sagittal and coronal sections, HASTE sequence, axial section.
T1-echo gradient sequence with fat saturation and contrast (T1 GRE ft-sat c+), axial sections.
STIR sequence, coronal section and T1 GRE fat sat c+, coronal section.
During hospitalization a positive blood culture for Staphylococcus was obtained.
Diagnosis: Acute osteomyelitis of the first right rib and pyomyositis of the long muscle of the right neck.
Thickening and secondary ipsilateral pleural effusion.
Chest X-ray revealed right pleural effusion and apical image suggestive of pleural thickening.
Axial chest CT scans with a soft tissue window
They confirmed the mild right pleural effusion and ipsilateral apical pleural thickening.
CT of the neck in a soft tissue window.
Rounded hypodense image that enhances peripherally with the contrast agent on the thickness of the pre-existing muscles in a right parasagittal situation.
Coronal fixation on the axis of the prestressed musculature
Hypodense injury, which extends through the right prestressed musculature.
Axial section and sagittal CT reconstruction of the neck in the bone window.
Normal bone structure, without pathological findings.
STIR sequence, axial section.
Sagittal and coronal.
Increased signal of bone marrow of the first rib and adjacent soft tissues suggesting inflammatory changes.
HASTE sequence, axial section.
A high signal lesion in the thickness of the long muscle of the right neck, suggesting a collection, was confirmed.
T1 sequence GRE fat-sat c+, axial slices.
Reinforcement is observed with the contrast medium of the soft tissues adjacent to the first rib and peripherally in a ring to inflammatory collection in the thickness of the long muscle of the right neck.
The pyomyositis in this case focuses on the inferior oblique fascicle, providing the intramuscular abscess.
It is also interesting that this explains the thickening and ipsilateral pleural effusion, since this muscle, coupled with the direct effect of costal osteomyelitis, probably served as a "bridge-to-back" neck causing pleural swelling between the chest.
Left blue pigmentation of TC, coronal or biblical axis in the fascicle pre - or sequence STIR, coronal section, T1 GRE fat-sat c +, shear circle and anatomical▁illustration of the muscles
The disposition of pyomyositis of the right long neck muscle can be seen, probably in its lower oblique fascicle.
