An 83-year-old male with a history of hypertension, stage D COPD with severe functional impairment and recent diagnosis of ascending colon neoplasia treated conservatively for comorbidity.
It also highlights stage 3 CRE and symptomatic BPH requiring permanent catheterization.
She was admitted due to deterioration of the general condition of one week of evolution and because she had▁appreciated a morada urine color in the probing bag.
She denied fever or other focalizing symptoms.
In the examination signs of severe▁caloric malnutrition (BMI 15.8 kg/m2) were evident despite an acceptable oral intake and the intake of hyperproteic nutritional supplements.
The complementary tests requested at admission include: deterioration of renal function and anemic syndrome, both stable compared to previous controls (creatinine 2.10 mg/ dl, urea 173 mg/dl, Hb 107 g/ml urine coli positive).
Bladder-biting urine syndrome is a rare entity that typically affects elderly women with prolonged catheterization and debilitated by chronic diseases.
The presence of previous urological pathology, prolonged bedridden and chronic constipation are factors that determine the severity of the condition.
It occurs in the presence of high concentrations of bacteria with indoxylsulphateline phosphatase activity (genus Proteus, Providencia, Pseudomonas or E. coli, among others) that develop in an alkaline environment.
It is not usually associated with increased morbidity, and in most cases it resolves with bladder catheterization replacement, hygienic measures and antibiotic treatment.
In general, these infections are not very symptomatic, with most patients suffering from pharyngitis, without leukocytosis or other relevant data.
The morado colour is due to the conversion of indoxyl sulphate, metabolite of tryptophan, into indoxyl enzymes due to bacterial phosphatase action.
Once in the bag, upon contact with oxygen, it becomes indigo and indirrubin, the mixture of which gives rise to a warm tone.
The oxidation process takes a few hours, so that initially the urine has a normal appearance and the coloration is seen time later on in the collector bag.
In this case, we consider that the use of nutritional supplements rich in tryptophan, played an important role in the development of this syndrome.
