Anamnesis This is a male patient, with prenatal ultrasound diagnosis of bilateral hydronephrosis, born by delivery at 38 weeks of gestation.
Treatment and evolution The presence of bilateral hydronephrosis until discharge into the bladder was confirmed postnatally by a new ultrasound.
Renal function in the first weeks is normal.
The diuretic renogram showed a delay in the removal of the radiotracer, with right partial renal function of 31.3%.
Cystography showed dilation of the posterior urethra secondary to urethral valves.
After diagnosis, bladder catheterization is performed.
A few days later, the patient started with a high-grade fever, and a positive blood culture for Escherichia coli and a positive urine culture for Enterococcus spp.
Treatment is established, clinically improving.
After several weeks of hospitalization, muguet and mycosis appear in the diaper area, which also resolves with appropriate treatment.
Surgery is scheduled, but she has a new urinary infection at the age of 2 months, with fever and anorexia, which requires hospitalization.
Urine was systematically observed with moderate bacteriuria and pyuria.
The bladder catheter is changed and empirical treatment is performed, since the urocultive is negative.
At discharge, treatment with cotrimoxazole was prescribed as anti-infectious prophylaxis.
With clinical improvement and after a new negative culture, endoscopic resection of the valves of the posterior urethra is performed, removing the bladder catheter after 10 days.
At the first follow-up ultrasound, at one month after the intervention (age 4 months), bilateral nephronephrosis with abundant left intra-uterine echogenic content with nodular morphology was observed in the hydrolytic groups.
After this diagnosis, it was decided, although asymptomatic, to hospitalize for observation and intravenous antifungal medical treatment.
Cultures are performed, which are negative.
During the new control, one week after admission, there was a disappearance of superior vena cava balls, one of which was smaller in the inferior vena cava.
After 2 weeks of intravenous antifungal treatment and a new ultrasound examination, the patient was discharged.
Posterior ultrasound showed disappearance of ball and in the last control of hydronephrosis.
Cystography at 6 months showed good voiding opening of the posterior urethra.
