A 52-year-old patient with no personal history of interest underwent a first emergency visit 72 hours before suffering a head injury with a closet, without loss of associated knowledge.
She presented with headache, of low intensity but continuous, and located at the level of the left frontoparietal area.
After performing a neurological examination within the normal range, it was decided to request a cranial CAT scan where a small left frontal cephalohematema was observed and the patient was discharged with usual analgesia.
Twenty days after the trauma, the patient visited the emergency department again due to a torpid evolution, with worsening of headache and fever up to 39oC.
Physical examination revealed arterial thrombosis 148/54; heart rate 91 bpm.
Temperature: 38.1oC; Glasgow 15.
Cardiopulmonary arrest: cardiac rhythmic noises.
bilateral silence.
Abdomen: blade, depressible, non-painful.
Neurologically: normal reactive pupils.
There was no neurological focus or sensory or motor deficit at the extremities.
In the skull, the left frontoparietal region, an erythematous zone was observed, with a fluctuating mass effect to the consolidation.
Emergency analysis: 13,900 (83% neutrophils); Hb 12.3 g/dL; Hto 36.6%; 175,000 platelets; fibrinogen 7.1 g/L.
Urea 34; Creatinine 0.77mg/dL.
Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm 90x, with no acute changes in repolarization.
Chest radiography: Cardiomediastinal silhouette and pulmonary vascularization within normal limits.
No findings of acute evolution.
We propose a differential diagnosis between cutaneous abscess and neoplasia. A cranial CAT scan is requested, which shows an epicraneal collection image in the left frontal region, about 16 x 45 mm thick transversely (specifically transverse) of the wall.
In the underlying bone, an image of a mottled osteolytic lesion with irregular and ill-defined margins is observed, with destruction of both diploic tables.
A sequestration is defined as a central interlock oscleral image.
This radiological image is suggestive of osteomyelitis with consequent epicraneal abscess and associated colitis.
In this context, there is a tiny epidural intracranial inflammatory component, with annular enhancement, of 1 cm in diameter, according to a tiny abscess.
After the result of a cranial CAT scan and prior evaluation by the neurosurgery service, it was decided to perform a surgical treatment in a programmed manner, under general anesthesia, performing a parasagittal incision, and appreciating the exit of abundant purulent material.
Osteomyelitis removes bone, which is removed by craniectomy, with resection of about 4 x 5 cm of bone.
After removal of the affected bone, the dura mater is noted for which it was decided to perform dural excision, which shows subarachnoid empyema, so the surgery was completed with a biopsy of the affected brain.
Plastic dura mater was placed and epidural drainage was left.
The patient was admitted to the ICU for post-operative control, finding multiple bacilli, with good evolution of the wound, under antibiotic treatment controlled by the infectious service, modifying it according to the culture result (a+bial grams)
During admission to the neurosurgical ward, the patient presented two isolated seizures, which modified anticonvulsant treatment.
No complications were observed after surgery or bleeding lesions in the control TAC performed. Due to the good radiological and clinical evolution of the patient, the patient was discharged with antibiotic treatment, anti-neurological consultations pending surgery, and outpatient surgery.
