We report the case of a patient who developed a Cotard syndrome in the early postpartum period, having had a pregnancy marked by significant anxiety and prematurely completed by cesarean section.
IDENTIFICATION OF PATIENT AGENCIES A 26-year-old pregnant woman, married, a 3-year-old son, a previous spontaneous abortion.
BREVE PSICOBIOGRAPHY: • Living at home with a father and child, as well as both parents and a brother.
• Low socio-cultural and economic level.
Unemployment.
ANESTH AFMILIARES PSIQUIATRICOS • Madre and aunt with mild depressive symptoms.
ANESTHETIC MEDICINESS - CIRCUMSTANCES • Iron deficiency anemia during the current pregnancy
I'm not interested.
• GAV 3-1-1.
Current desired pregnancy.
• Denies the use of alcohol or abuse drugs ANTECE PSTRIAL PSIQUIÁ fulfilling diagnostic criteria for alcohol abuse disorders • the presence of post-partum sadness after her first pregnancy, without requiring medical attention and without reaching
• Grief reaction to abortion during the second pregnancy, without requesting medical or psychological help for this process.
NURSING ANNUALIZED A pregnant patient in advanced stage of pregnancy (32 weeks) by his primary care physician to the community mental health team for multiple complaints ruled out organically as well as for pregnancy-related symptoms, hab.
After evaluating the patient through psychopathological examination, the diagnostic orientation is a mixed type adaptive disorder.
EVOLUTION After the first visit to mental health, the patient does not return to the service, however, she attends the hospital on multiple occasions.
In the first 7 months of pregnancy she came to the emergency room on 19 occasions, seen by the generalised care unit without pruritus, sensations in all of them, abdominal pain, metrorrhagia, mild metrorrhagia,▁malaise, increased abdominal pain, tremor
Finally, the patient is admitted to the Department of Psychiatry of Enlace.
She was assessed by a psychiatrist at the hospital on two occasions, with the patient at 32 and 33 weeks of gestation.
The reason for consultation was anxiety, hyperpredictation and persistent ideas about pregnancy and a fatal outcome (fetal death).
In the psychopathological examination, hypochondriacal cognitive ruminations and initially thought contentious stood out, from the perseverant around fears related to a bad evolution of pregnancy, with an important affective repercussion presenting anxiety and sadness, which
There were no alterations in sense perception, disturbances in ownership/intimacy of thought, phenomena of influence of the self or other symptoms of psychotic nature.
A possible treatment with SSRI and lorazepam is proposed to combat hypochondriac thoughts and anxiety.
However, given the patient's refusal to take medication and assessing the advanced stage of pregnancy and the latency period of SSRIs, we opted for psychotherapeutic support and relaxation techniques instead of psychotropic drugs.
Finally, in▁Obstetrics it was decided to perform an emergency cesarean section for suspected loss of fetal well-being.
Cesarean section was uneventful.
The newborn has an Apgar score of 56/9, with umbilical cord pH 7.24 and Hb of 3.4 g/dl, requiring referral to neonatal ICU.
After cesarean section, the patient is reassessed by a liaison psychiatrist.
The psychopathological examination highlights the final persistent discourse, characterized by hypochondriac ideas of increasing pressure and affective repercussion (beliefs to be infected or to be able to catch a hair infection, concerned about the pregnancy loss
During the visit to the newborn child in the neonatal ICU, multiple somatic complaints and persistent hypochondriac ideas persist, also confirming a new motor slowing.
His discourse focused on the ideas of contamination and disease is increasingly perseverant and almost irreducible, so that his admission to the Psychiatry Unit is indicated. A marked psychopathological examination already shows a marked environmental reactivity in psychiatric plant.
His self- and allopsychic orientation and his level of consciousness do not show alterations.
The hypochondriac ideas that are punishable gradually acquire a character: the patient keeps a firm and irrefutable mind that she is going to die "because I haven't healed well from the quartz."
The delirious hypochondriac ideas are added with ideas of prejudice,▁believing that we are going to make a report to remove children.
He often cry, saying that "I'm going to die and I'm not going to see my child again..." "you're going to take the children out because I'm not well".
The slowing of thought, language and motor skills increases in the following days, increasing the latency of verbal response, sometimes blocking speech.
Then the hypochondriac delusional ideas are placed in the foreground: "comes with infected cesarean section...the intestines have come out, I'm empty inside, I'm dying with dementia...
Sometimes it is perplex, semi-stuporous.
It also begins to present▁rigidity in passive mobilization.
Although the postures are not fixed, if the arm is raised, for example, it slowly drops, and may remain in an anatomical position for several minutes.
Thus, melancholic stupor with Cotard syndrome and catatoniform symptoms is completely established.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES • Normal blood count, biochemistry, liver and kidney function tests.
Normal thyroid function.
• B12 and normal folates.
• Normal skull CT.
• Normal rheumatic tests.
• Serology lues, HIV, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, Borrelia, rituals: no findings.
DIAGNÓST QUESTION developed this psychotic clinic oriented the case as a severe depressive episode with symptoms (F32.3), Cotard syndrome.
SELECTION OF THE PROCESSING IN NON-availability of ECT in our hospital, we started treatment with intravenous Clomipramine, which was then administered orally, together with oral olanzapine to combat psychotic symptoms
It is also treated with high doses of▁benzodiazepines (lorazepam) to control catatonic symptoms.
MONITORING AND EFFECTIVE OF THE TREATMENT The response is slow but slow, with initial improvement of catatonian▁rigidity (affective screening for mood and psychomotor retardation), and subsequent delay in bradykinesia, environmental reactivity
The last thing to control, after about 5 weeks, is the hypochondriac delirious ideas.
After a home leave, the patient is almost completely re-established, wishing to go home with her children.
Finally, the patient was discharged and the follow-up was maintained at the outpatient level, with treatment with oral Clomipramine 150 mg/day + oral olanzapine 10 mg/day.
