A 52-year-old woman with no relevant personal history was admitted from the emergency department with a three-day history of asthenia and professional sweating. Pertinum fever of up to 39.5°C, together with chills.
He did not refer other relevant data except arthralgias, myalgias and a semi-liquid deposition without blood or pathological products in hours prior to admission.
He did not refer travel abroad in the last year, but had occasional contact with animals.
Physical examination at admission temperature of 38.8°C, TA 95/60 mmHg, HR 75 bpm.
Aware and oriented, good nutritional status.
Registered
Pallor of mucous membranes
Head and neck were normal.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible, painless to palpation, without masses or enlargement, and peristalsis.
Extremities without edema, conserved pulses.
The patient had an erythematous-nodular lesion and small nodular lesions on the right knee on the dorsal aspect of the distal third of the left forearm.
Peripheral lymphadenopathy was not present.
Hemoglobin 11.5 g/dL, hematocrit 34% (normal courses) were determined on admission.
Leucocytes 4300 103/μL (normal formula), platelets 127000 103/μL
Blood count at discharge: hemoglobin 11.1 g/dL with normal volumes.
Reticulocytes 2.29%.
Leucocytes 4780 103/μL (normal formula), platelets 337000 103/μL
Coagulation was normal.
Biochemistry: determinations of glucose, urea, creatinine, creatinine, cholinergic, bilirubin, cholesterol, folate, B12 folate, lipase, alkaline amylase within normal limits.
LDH 218U/L, normal proteinogram.
CRP 15.2, ferritin 212 ng/mL.
TSH 3.98 mU/L, β2 microglobulin 1.8 mg/L normal.
ANAs were negative.
Nefel for IgG, IgA, IgM, C3 and C4 within normal limits.
Normal rheumatoid factor.
Secreta and urine sediment: 2-5 leukocytes x field with few urothelial cells.
Cait de flow: normal cellularity, proportional megakaryocytes, occasional mastocytes.
Myeloid series sent to the left, mild monocytosis.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)
Hyperplasia of the mononuclear phagocyte system was observed.
No lymphocytosis or▁lymphoid accumulation, the marrow being reactive.
Medullary biopsy: fragmented bone sample, representing the three hematopoietic series.
There is no alteration in the reticulum, sclerosis or fibrosis.
ECG: normal.
TTE: normal.
Serial blood cultures were negative.
Urocultive: negative, Ag for pneumococci negative.
Coprocultive: negative.
Quantiferon: positive 0.64IU/ml.
FNAC dermal lesion: negative for malignancy.
Serology HBV, HCV, HIV, Borrelia, Brucella, Coxiella, EBV, Rickettsia, LUES and Mycoplasma negative.
IgM negative IgG.
Abdominal ultrasound: Retroperitoneal adenomegaly with focal lesions.
Abdominal CT scan with contrast: small mediastinal adenopathies of 10mm, subpleural nodule in LID compatible with colitis.
Hepatosplenic enlargement with hypodense lesions in hepatic segments III-IV and VI-VII of 5mm-18mm.
In b, multiple hypoxic lesions affecting the whole parenchyma are identified.
Retroperitoneal 10mm diameter adenopathies in the left paraaortic region and in the gastroheptic ligament.
Small lymph nodes, mesentery and peripancreatic.
Normal rectum.
Serology for IFI for Bartonella henselae IgM positive and IgG positive with titers above 1/5
cytometry of the iliac crest as well as lymphoma: A patient with a history described was admitted for subacute presentation, with images that initially raise suspicion of a non-Hodgkin lymphoma and more specifically given the splenic findings.
While the patient remained with symptomatic treatment and completed the studies, it was decided to extend the serology given his previous contact with animals and forearm lesions that could suggest spiders; being positive for ceftria IV given a single patient with IV ceftria IV.
A satisfactory evolution was observed, with progressive remission of symptoms until its complete recovery.
