Anamnesis An 81-year-old woman with a history of hyperuricemia, hyperthyroidism, dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus with organic involvement (diabetic retinopathy) and ischemic heart disease.
As a medical treatment, the patient received platelet aggregation, lipid lowering medication, hypouricemic agents and oral antidiabetic agents.
He came to the emergency room with gait instability after a casual fall a few hours before.
Within 24 hours after admission to Internal Medicine, she suffered a new fall, beginning with macroscopic hematuria.
Physical examination at admission showed arrhythmic heart sounds with a frequency of 100 bpm.
The patient had a blushing, depredictable abdomen, with no pain or enlargement.
Twenty-four hours after admission, the physical examination remained unchanged, except macroscopic hematuria.
▁Complementary tests at admission: • Biochemistry: blood glucose 244 mg/dl, creatinine 0.94 mg/dl, urea 54 mg/dl, ck 5.091 IU/l, CRP 3.30 mg/dl.
Blood count: 11600 leukocytes/l (82 neutrophils, 8 lymphocytes, 10 monocytes).
Coagulation: fibrinogen 499 mg/dl.
Urine secretion glycated hemoglobinuria ++, ++, ++, protein +.
Mild haematuria (5-10 H x C).
• Electrocardiogram: atrial fibrillation, 125 bpm.
• Brain computed tomography (CT) without contrast: no bleeding or other images suggestive of acute intracranial pathology are observed.
At 24 hours after admission: • Microbiological: urinocultive and two hemocultives in which multisensitive Escherichia coli was isolated.
• CT scan of the abdomen: kidneys in the extrarenal pelvis.
Small amount of free fluid
Rectal wall thickening, thickening of the presacral space.
Bladder walls thickened with gas inside.
Diagnosis • emphysematous cyst.
▁Diabetic derangement.
Atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response
• Rabilysis.
Treatment After confirming the clinical diagnostic suspicion of emphysematous cyst, she received conservative medical treatment with a urethral catheter with lavage, antibiotic therapy with piperacillin/tazo plus insulin therapy.
At admission, the clinical and radiological evolution was satisfactory, with improvement in blood glucose levels, which remained below 150 mg/dl and virtually complete disappearance of gas images in the bladder wall at 12 days follow-up CT
Despite this, she suffered a cardiorespiratory arrest in a facility witnessed by health personnel, which initiated resuscitation maneuvers, probably secondary to the patient in the intensive care unit, where she died due to a personal ischemic cardiopathy cardiac arrest.
