A 51-year-old male patient with a history of Takayasu Vasculitis and analytical criteria for antiphospholipid syndrome treated with prednisone 5 mg/day and left Azathioprine 150 mg/day who was admitted to our hospital with herniat
72 hours after surgery the patient begins with severe pain and swelling of the left lower limb to the knee, with the presence of isolated pretibial cutaneous lesions of equiceae coloration and some lesions.
The patient developed contralateral lesions, which also developed purp appearance without traumatic history and progressed to necrotic plaques and blisters.
At the same time the patient began with a sero-sanguineous▁exudate at the surgical wound level as well as a progressive deterioration of the general condition with hypotension (90/60 mmHg), acute platelet oliguria and reactive platelet elevation with dementia
Vascular Surgery assessment was requested, hemocultives and surgical wound cultures were performed and coverage was initiated with broad spectrum antibiotic therapy with cefepime and linezolid within 24 hours of the onset of symptoms tozole treatment.
A Gram-negative surgical bacilli (NS) was detected in those aspirated from skin and wound lesions.
Differential diagnosis We are in a patient with a deterioration of the general state with a recent lumbar intervention and an increase in size of the lower limbs along with equimotic, purpuric lesions and evolutionarily with necrotic areas.
These findings are discussed primarily two possible origins, one infectious and another autoimmune.
The patient presents a context of autoimmunity with large vessel vasculitis (Takayasu).
In view of the deterioration of general status, laboratory abnormalities (anaemia, thrombopenia, coagulopathy, renal failure) and purpuric lesions should be ruled out as well as a haemolytic uremic syndrome ( HUTT).
The presence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) should also be ruled out, since the patient presents analytical criteria for an antiphospholipid syndrome.
Alternatively, it would be necessary to think of an infectious origin of the condition, in this case being treated for severe sepsis with multiple organ failure secondary to an infection of the surgical wound, which presents an▁exudate in the lower limbs that can be detected.
The evolution of the patient was poor, requiring urgent surgical cleaning of the lumbar wound 72 hours after the onset of symptoms and subsequent admission to the ICU requiring hemodynamic support.
She was evaluated by vascular surgery which ruled out the presence of DVT. The presence of hemolysis (normal haptoglobin, negative coombcystic test, Pseudomonas aeruginosa wound without fecal cultures) was analytically ruled out.
With directed antibiotic treatment and the rest of the measures the patient showed a clear improvement with resolution of the systemic picture and disappearance of▁exudate from the surgical wound and lesions of the right lower limb.
However, after returning to the Infectious Diseases plant, the lesions on the left side increased in size with extensive areas of necrosis and repeated positive cultures for Pseudomonas aeruginosa with the same resistance profile.
After more than 15 days of directed antibiotic treatment without substantial changes in the incidence of lesions, it was decided to perform surgical debridement of unaffected lesions in the operating room, leaving major debridement loss of substance, requiring two new des.
In view of the loss of substance and insufficient response to plant cures, it was decided to start therapy with a closed vacuum system (VAC therapy) for all lesions.
In two weeks with VAC therapy and continuing with targeted antibiotic therapy, cultures of the wound became negative and abundant granulation tissue appeared.
Finally, the patient was evaluated by the Plastic Surgery Department of the reference hospital and after three months of hospitalization for a cutaneous self-injection with good subsequent evolution.
Final diagnosis 1.
Severe sepsis with multiorgan failure secondary to early infection of surgical wound by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in immunosuppressed patient.
2.
Necrotizing lower limb inflammation due to metastatic implantation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa
