We report the case of a 63-year-old woman who came to the emergency department with fever of 5 days of evolution in the form of feverish peaks, 2 to 3 daily, which reaches temperatures up to 40oC associated with vomiting.
His medical history included systemic lupus erythematosus with prednisone 5mg/24h and azathioprine 50mg/12h, which is currently being treated, with no recent history of sprouts, hypertension and dyslipidemia.
The patient was specifically asked about her epidemiological history, denying contact with animals, recent travels and risky sexual practices.
The patient was oriented to cardiorespiratory auscultation, conscious and oriented, with dry skin and mucous membranes, hypotensive (70/40 mmHg), tachypnea at 36 bpm normal auscultation maintaining normal breathing SpO2.
On physical examination, pain due to palpation of the right hypochondrium is highlighted, as well as pain due to lower peritonism or defense, without equipment or enlargement, as well as edema of the lower limbs minimum nipples.
Initial laboratory studies revealed data on renal dysfunction (creatinine 2.1 mg/dl, urea 92 mg/dl, sodium 126 mmol/l), hepatic dysfunction (GOT 125U/l, GPT 80 microglitazone reactive/l), elevated neutrophil
Normal blood glucose, bilirubin, amylase, coagulation and venous gases were normal.
Hematuria and leukocyturia were detected in urine analysis, with negative nitrites.
Chest X-ray and electrocardiogram showed no abnormalities of interest.
Urgent abdominal ultrasound was performed, highlighting at least 4 hypoechogenic liver space occupying lesions (SLOs), some with reinforcement, presenting inside them▁partitions as well as localized IV echogenic content, being the largest segment 2 cm.
Abdominal ultrasound: Multiple liver abscesses.
Radiological diagnosis of chest CT scan performed 5 months earlier revealed a normal liver.
The radiological conclusion, considering the clinical context of the patient and the relative new appearance of the lesions, was of infectious etiology (abscesses) as the first possibility.
Clinical status of the patient and findings of complementary tests was decided upon admission, starting antibiotic therapy and requiring complete blood analysis, coprocultive and abdominal CT to complete imaging.
Differential diagnosis Liver abscess is a collection located in the liver parenchyma resulting from an infectious process either caused by frequent bacterial (frequent) infection, or by honeycombing.
The liver can be infected by biliary route or by direct contact and know the ethiopathogeny allows suspecting the microorganism responsible in most cases.
Among the most common microorganisms that should be taken into account when making the differential diagnosis are: • Gram-negative bacteria such as Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, staphylococcus spp.
Pseudomonas spp. that are involved in up to 60% of cases.
• Bacterial anaerobic bacteria such as Baoides spp., Fusarios spp., Peptostreptococcus spp. and Clostridium spp., which are detected in 35-45% of the cases.
• Gram-positive bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and group D Streptococcus are uncommon, although they should be considered in immunocompromised patients.
• Mycobacteria, especially Mycobacterium tuberculosis, can cause abscesses with negative cultures.
• Lipodystrophy, Salmonella spp., Y Brucella spp. and Salmonella spp., particularly in immunocompromised patients.
• Fungi, especially Candida albicans, Aspergillus spp, Histoplasma spp, Cryptosporidium spp and Sporothrix spp, frequently appear in an immunocompromised patient or in treatment with chemotherapy or following a trip abroad.
• Entamoeba histolytica should be considered when traveling to endemic areas, dysentery and multiple abscesses are present.
multiple lobe abscesses and peripheral abscesses during admission are confirmed by abdominal CT, which shows indistinguishable LOEs in both phases with low attenuation in all phases and no central portal content
Abdominal CT c/c: multiple liver abscesses.
All these findings are consistent with multiple liver abscesses caused by unusual pyogenic germs.
At 48 hours after admission, the Microbiology Department (LM) reports growth in emergency hemoculctives.
This result in which a germ compatible with the patient's condition is found, it is decided not to perform puncture guided by imaging technique, which would be the diagnostic procedure of choice in this case, since the risk is not established
It was decided to direct antimicrobial treatment with ampicillin and gentamicin maintaining the treatment that had begun with metronidazole on admission, although it is controversial to keep metronidazole having isolated an aerobic germ responsible for the clinical picture.
The evolution of the patient is slowly favorable, hemodynamically stable, controlling fever and progressive analytical improvement, although renal deterioration and edema in the lower limbs persist.
Given the history of lupus disease it was decided to complete study of autoimmunity and study of renal function, discarding new sprout of the disease.
Hydration and adequate blood volume are potentiated until renal function is controlled, which is normalized at discharge.
Based on the antibiogram, it was decided to sequence oral treatment with trimethoprim-methoprim-salicylic acid, whose duration is guided by clinical, laboratory and radiological response.
The patient is reviewed in external consultations one month after hospital discharge, performing abdominal ultrasound control where reduction of abscess size is confirmed, finally in a new ultrasound control at two weeks, which had completely disappeared.
Clinically the patient has not presented any symptoms again.
Final diagnosis Bacteremia and liver abscesses due to Lys infection in immunocompromised patients.
