Anamnesis A 36-year-old woman, with no history of interest, presented with headache and blurred vision.
In the 3 weeks prior to admission, the patient had a febrile syndrome with temperatures up to 38 oC, and 5 days before admission headache of frontal predominance and bilateral blurred vision with retroocular pain.
Febiculum of 37,5 °C.
The visual acuity was 0.2 in both eyes and bilateral papilledema.
The rest of the neurological and systemic examination was normal.
Borrosity of the papillary edges and bilateral papillary elevation.
Several small nodular lesions are seen in the nasal retina.
Investigations • Analytical: normal.
ESR 22 mm, normal CRP.
Beta-2-microglobulin 2.81.
• Autoimmunity (ANA and ACA) negative.
• Ocular fluorescein: compatible with bilateral optic neuritis.
• Brain MRI: a small frontal lesion compatible with meningioma as the only finding.
• Lumbar puncture on admission: normal opening pressure, glucose 45 (simultaneous blood 110).
Hyperproteinorrhachia of 126, 70 cells predominantly mononuclear (97% ), identical 3,600, ADA 7,9.
BOC negative.
Similar serial lumbar punctures compatible with▁lymphocytic meningitis.
• Lumbar puncture (after tuberculous treatment): glucose 53 (occurrence of sinusitis), 66 proteins, leukocytes 7,
• Serologies in serum and CSF of Borrelia, Brucella, lees, HIV, Bartonella, herpes, cryptococcal antigen: negative.
• Mantoux, mycobacterial culture, PCR for tuberculosis negative.
• Chest X-ray: no remarkable changes.
• EKG: normal sinus rhythm.
• Toco-abdominal CT: small nonspecific mediastinal lymphadenopathies, and a single abdominal lymphadenopathy near the celiac trunk, without suggesting abnormality data.
Initial diagnosis: meningitis and tuberculous optic neuritis as first possibility.
▁Definitive diagnosis: sarcoidosis.
Treatment Initially began treatment with antituberculosis drugs and corticosteroids (for one month).
Seven months after the new diagnosis, she started corticotherapy and immunosuppression with methotrexate.
Ev since the first admission was evaluated by admission to the hospital at 2 months, where there was persistent and asymptomatic, except mild bilateral visual deficit.
Despite the negative results that confirm tuberculous meningitis, the clinical and analytical improvement (repeated lumbar puncture) suggests maintaining treatment with tuberculous meningitis.
Seven months later she was readmitted a third time due to left peripheral facial paralysis.
On admission, the diagnosis is re-examined and the tests are repeated.
Lumbar puncture is similar to previous ones (persistent hyperproteinorrhachia, glucose in the limit and scarce cellularity with 8 mononuclear cells), the ACE in CSF is negative and in serum is normal CT appearance 52 (value of
This finding is made by fibrobronchoscopy of lymph nodes with bronchoalveolar lavage and biopsy, with finding low CD4/CD8 ratio (which does not favor, but does not exclude, the diagnosis of sarcoidosis).
Pending still at this time of the pathological anatomy and being reviewed in external consultations with the results, he returns to hospital a fourth time 2 months later for right facial paralysis, before he arrives to resolve on the contralateral side.
The results of the pathological anatomy revealed non necrotizing granulomatous inflammation of the▁sarcoid type.
At this time, tuberculous treatment was suspended and it was decided to initiate treatment with corticosteroids and methotrexate.
