A 62-year-old male with a history of smoking (20 cigarettes/day smoker) who met the criteria for chronic bronchitis, alcoholism and anxiety-death syndrome, was treated.
In 1979 she suffered sudden endocarditis associated with mesangial-capilary glomerulonephritis, which required placement of a mechanical aortic prosthesis, with secondary chronic kidney disease (stage 3B at present).
She was treated with flurazepam, alprazolam, trazodone, warfarin, enalapril (5 mg every 24 hours) and atenol (50 mg every 24 hours).
In January 2017, the patient suffered an episode of unconsciousness loss without prodromes, in sitting position, and falling to the ground, with rapid recovery due to illustrative care in a few minutes.
He had been on amoxicillin for fever, polyarthralgia and coughing scarcely.
The patient was afflicted with a preserved general condition.
TA 112/60 mm Hg., rhythmic heart at 70 bpm, with metallic click and aortic systolic murmur III/VI that respected second noise.
Her respiratory condition was normal.
No peripheral edema or signs of venous thrombosis.
The abdomen was unremarkable.
No skin lesions.
The initial complementary tests showed ECG in sinus rhythm at 75 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS, with no changes in repolarization.
Chest radiography with cardiac silhouette in the upper limits of normality and pulmonary parenchyma without significant findings.
A CT scan of the skull showed a small focus of left parietal subarachnoid hemorrhage, a lacunar chronic ischemic lesion in the right tail head and probable subacute corticoid subcortical right parietal ischemic lesion.
In the initial analytical studies, Hb, leukocytes and platelets were normal, with elevated MCV (100.4 fL) and mild neutrophilia (78%); INR 4.10.
Urea 78 mg/dL, and creatinine 2 mg/dL, During their stay in the emergency department, the syncope episode was recorded, with a 1-degree AVB (PR 360 par ms) and intermittent recurH ECG.
On serial ECG, progression to complete AVB with ventricular leakage at 20 bpm was observed.
The patient developed left ventricular failure (LVF) and was admitted to the ICU where transient and later definitive placements were performed.
The transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed: a normal left sized echocardiogram with mild LVH and good global systolic function, with no evidence of regional▁contractility; auricle stable mitral valve opening and slight mitral valve opening with mitral regurgitation.
After clinical stabilization, after 48 hours, the patient was admitted to the Cardiology Unit with fever (37.5 – 38o), polyarthralgias and marked amoxicillin decay, which persisted after three days of empirical treatment
Leukocytes increased to 17,000/mm3 with 81% PMN.
Other analytical data to be highlighted were: AST 82 U/L, ALT U/L, ALT 696 U/L, alkaline phosphatase 64 mm/L, alkaline phosphatase 262 U/L, ferritin 13 mg/dL SGRQ 5
Antibiotic therapy was suspended, the dose of sedative drugs was reduced and prednisone 30 mg daily was prescribed, when autoimmune symptoms were suspected.
That same day they inform from Microbiology that staphylococci are growing in a tanda of two hemocultives.
This finding was maintained with prednisone, a new two-hemocultive tandem was obtained and treatment with daptomycin 850 mg every 24 hours was initiated, with transesophageal echocardiography (TEE).
Coinciding with the first dose of prednisone, the patient remains afflicted, improving arthralgia and general condition.
On subsequent days, and occasionally, episodes of mild intermittent chest discomfort with normal ECG began.
After two days of treatment with daptomycin, daptomycin is suspended as it is the second treatment of hemocultives, and as the first treatment increased as much as the Staphylococcus aureus which was negative as vancomycin (metCMI).
The planned TEE was suspended and the treatment with prednisone was maintained without recurrence of fever.
fever, polyarthralgia, general condition and laboratory test results (decrease in CRP to 94 mg/L, decrease in white blood cell count to 12,000/mm3)
Eight days after discharge, the patient was admitted again due to chest pain, with a diagnosis of high-risk non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS) associated with LVF and hypotension, and was admitted to the ICU.
Coronary angiography was performed within the first 24 hours, showing severe stenosis of the left coronary trunk ostium (TCI), which was revascularized with drug-eluting direct stent implantation, patient with no other clinical improvement of the other coronary level.
Catheterization: There is a narrowing of the ostium of the left coronary trunk, with severe injury at this level.
A healthy coronary artery remnant with walls and without lesions.
During admission, fever peaks were used, and S. epidermis was isolated again in blood with the same antibiogram as in the previous admission.
Differential diagnosis Blockade of the conductive AV is a disorder in which physiological atrial impulses are delayed or not in a refractory period to the ventricles at a time when the AV pathway is not present.
It can be congenital or acquired, and in this case there are intrinsic causes or intrinsic causes in its development.
Intrinsic factors include negative chronotropic drugs, electrolyte disturbances, hypothyroidism, sleep apnea (hypoxemia) and increased vagal tone.
Among the intrinsic causes stands out the idiopathic degenerative one, followed by myocardial ischemia, infectious inflammatory diseases or systemic fibrosis affecting the conductive tissue, as well as some neuromuscular diseases (Karns syndrome).
e. g. cardiac sarcoidosis, amyloidosis), neoplasic disorders (primary cardiac lymphoma or after radiotherapy) or after surgery or percutaneous ablation of septal accessory pathways or AV node recurrence for tachycardia.
In our case, we could consider ourselves as the most plausible gastrointestinal options, in the light of the test results: 1.
Primary (degenerative) conduction disorders complicated by late prosthetic endocarditis secondary to bacteremia due to S. epidermis during implantation of implanted electrodes.
2.
Secondary conduction disturbance: possible initial occult prosthetic endocarditis with conductive tissue involvement at the interaortic fibrous trigone-AV valves and further progression.
High-grade block secondary to beta-blockers would be much less likely to occur, given that the patient received low doses and the same delay in admission occurred progressively, with no symptoms prior to the first risk.
Regarding the etiology of NSTEACS, we would consider: 1- atherosclerotic ASC (less likely, given the characteristics of the rest of the coronary arteries, being completely healthy and without angiographic lesions).
2-SCA due to compression.
3-ACS secondary to inflammation of the coronary wall.
aortic stenosis was diagnosed by TTE and TEE, which showed a difficult periprocedural abscess secondary to valsalva sinus quantification (non-coronary sinus and partial provular sinus), partially occupied by a mobile echogenic material, with a
Transthoracic echocardiography, apical plane 5 chambers.
Pseudoaneurysm at the septal defective membranous that shows an acquired Gerbode defect with left ventricular (LV) fistula to the right atrium (RA).
Transesophageal echocardiogram at 140o (images to the izqda) and on aortic ring plane.
In the short axis of aortic root, an aortic prosthesis was observed at the level of hemicircosis posterior to the same ring, dilation of the posterior sinus of Valsalva that fistulizes in its right side to the right atrium and posterior prosthesis.
The left coronary trunk was observed to be continuity with the periprocedural abscess.
Fistulization was also observed from abscess to both right cavities, as well as a hypermobile image attached to the disc of 2 mm prosthesis compatible with vegetation.
No vegetations were observed in the rest of the heart valves or in the electrodes of the tape.
The function of both ventricles was preserved.
Combined treatment was started with cloxacillin 2 gr/4h and daptomycin 650 mg/24h iv, leaving the affricating and negativizing the hemocultives on the third day of treatment.
The referral hospital was requested to be transferred for surgical intervention, and the patient was rejected, so she was referred to another center, which occurred 9 days after the diagnosis of endocarditis by TEE.
At the time of transfer, valve insufficiency had worsened by TTE and 50% of the circumference of the prosthesis was visible as a sign of dementia.
The patient was in NYHA class III heart failure requiring 120 mg of furosemide per day.
In this hospital, cefazolin antibiotic therapy was prescribed and surgical intervention was performed 23 days after diagnosis, with aortic valve replacement with a new mechanical valve for closure of the pericardium patch.
Postoperative complications included renal failure requiring hemodialysis, left ventricular failure, and unexplained symptoms of origin (without in return antibiotic therapy piperacillin-patient, failure of multiple organ failure), and failure of multiple organ failure.
Final diagnosis Infectious endocarditis late prosthetic prosthesis on mechanical aortic prosthesis by S. epidermis sensitive meticillin, complicated with perianular perianular abscess at the level of aortic root and severe atrial fistula, perivalvular aortic insufficiency.
High-grade AV block and NSTEACS are probably related to compression by periprocedural abscess.
