A 16-year-old male patient from the rural area of Cali, Colombia, with chronic exposure to the excrement of poultry in his home with a history of idiopathic cirrhosis, Child-Pugh class IV expected a previous liver transplant Class B.
At the time of consultation in the emergency department she had a clinical picture of 8 days evolution of fever nuclei, persistent emesis, headache, photophobia and multiple chemical staining; for this reason a lumbar puncture was performed to obtain cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
The results obtained from the cerebrospinal fluid sample.
Culture reported growth of Cryptococcus gattii sensitive to liposomal amphotericin B, 5 - Fluocytokine and fluconazole.
Cranial Computed Tomography Axial Tomography was performed, where cryptomas and signs of cerebral edema were not identified.
Antimycotic management was initiated with liposomal amphotericin B and 5 - Fluocytokine with good initial clinical evolution given by resolution of headache, tolerance of the oral route and resolution of other symptoms.
Ten days later, the patient presented clinical deterioration with signs of sepsis and digestive bleeding, which led to the transfer to the care unit.
A cytochemical control of CSF was performed, which persists with hypoglycorrhachia, pleocytosis and fungal structures in the Chinese ink study.
After 24 days of hospitalization, the patient presented neurological deterioration, renal failure requiring dialysis, central respiratory failure and coagulopathy with massive alveolar bleeding,▁concluding with the death of the patient.
Cryptococcus spp. are round or oval yeasts measuring 20 μm in diameter.
C. neoformans has a universal distribution and can be easily found in the environment mainly in soil contaminated with bird feces and C. gattii has been isolated in flowers and trees such as eucalyptus, ficus.
Initially it was thought that C. gattii was a subtype of C. neoformans, but now it is recognized as a unique species that is divided into four molecular types: VGI, VGII, VGIII and VGIV.
VGI and VGII strains have endemic distribution in Australia, VGII and VGIII in South America, and the VGIV strain in the United States, which is associated with episodes of aggressive meningoencephalitis.
