Anamnesis A 61-year-old female patient with a history of long-standing cervicalgia and mechanical back pain that one week before admission presented acute upper limb cervical pain with little upper limb pain of moderate intensity not associated with conventionalMS.
She came to the emergency department and a normal cranial computed tomography (CT) scan was performed.
On successive days, the patient complained of difficulty in breathing due to distal weakness of both lower limbs (MMII), distal shortening of the lower limbs, and finally difficulty in initiating urination and only small urine.
In addition, she has had constipation that is why a microenema has needed to be given.
The patient denied a history of trauma, infection or recent vaccination, or insect or other animal bites.
Personal history: no adverse drug reactions, intolerance to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid.
No toxic habits.
Hypertuberculosis in treatment with enalapril.
Surgical interventions: hysterectomy for uterine myoma 17 years ago.
Baseline situation: autonomous for basal activities of daily living.
Physical examination Constants at admission: blood pressure 154/89 mmHg, heart rate 80 bpm, temperature 35.1, basal O2 saturation 97%.
Good general condition, well perfused and hydrated, good skin and mucous coloration.
Head and neck: normal, carotid latent and symmetrical.
The vesicular eruption of the lungs is preserved: mucus, without overlapping sounds.
Heart attack: A. aegypti to 90 lpm, not so strong or so extractive.
Abdomen: blando, depressible, painless spontaneously or the fixation, there are no masses or organomegaly (bladder catheterization).
Decreased intestinal sounds.
LLLL: pedal pulses present, no edema, no signs of deep venous thrombosis.
MSD neurological: in the motor system highlights global weakness of the MSD (2-3/5) with hypotonia abatecida at this level.
Paraparesis LLLL 4–/5 proximal and 4+/5 distal, with preserved muscle tone.
Bone-tendon osteotendinous grafts (BTT) exhaled in the lower limbs with cutaneous-planatr reflex on the right extensor in the removal and on the left starts extension.
Abolised OTR in the MSD and very low in the left upper limb (ULM).
Tactile-algesic hypoesthesia, especially in the left lower limb (LLL), without being able to delimit a clear sensory level.
Arthrokinetic instability itself is normal.
Normal cranial nerves, cerebellum and coordination: normal in lower limbs and lower limbs, very artifacted in the upper limbs due to motor deficit.
▁Complementary tests • Blood analysis: blood count, coagulation, biochemistry with hepatic and renal profile within normal limits.
C-reactive protein (CRP): normal.
• Chest X-ray: normal.
• Electrocardiogram (ECG): normal.
• Negative serology for Mycoplasma, loes, Borrelia, human immunodeficiency virus and neurotropic virus.
• Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): normal.
• Cervical-dorsal MRI: intramedullary lesion located in the lateral cord at C5-C6 level, 27 mm long and 7 mm maximum transverse diameter.
His signal is hyperintense on T2.
No masses were detected for malignancy.
Vertebral bodies with normal morphology and signal intensity.
Cervical interspace disks with normal morphology, height and signal intensity, with no evidence of hernias or disc protrus.
Discrete signal intensity loss on D2-D3 disc in relation to sealant.
Conclusion: C5-C6 intramedullary angioma with extensive acutesubacute cervicodorsal myelitis.
She was assessed by the Neurosurgery Department of another hospital, which proposed the performance of a spinal cord angiography, which the patient refused at the time.
Diagnosis • Acute non-traumatic myelopathy of vascular origin secondary to intramedullary C5-C6 right angioma.
• Neuropathic pain with metamerican distribution of the cyst at C8-T2 level right and contralateral hemitroncus and IIM.
Treatment and evolution The patient has progressively motor deficit, presenting at discharge: mild right brachial paresis (4+/5) and left crural paresis (4+/5), although mild sensitivity is decreased in MII with no type of support.
During admission and after neurological follow-up, the patient developed neuropatic pain with a metamerical distribution dose of clomipramine to optimal level of C8-T2 and persistence + mild gabapentin, which required several combinations.
When trying to start carbamazepine she had an allergic reaction, so it was stopped.
The patient improved completely from urinary discomfort, requiring treatment with solifenacin, and also from intestinal discomfort, requiring only in the first days of admission treatment with microenemas.
Two and a half years later, the patient came to the emergency service for presenting three days before admission a cervical pain and crouching of the right arm with impossibility, in addition to lower limbs pain to lift adequately, leg pain to lift.
She did not report urinary urgencies or constipation.
The neurological examination presented the following data.
Force: right brachial monoparesis (2/5), conserved strength in the lower limbs, live WOR in the MSD, slightly exhaled in the RLL with right achilles response clonoid flexor CPR rapidly exhaustible.
Liability: crossed tactile hypoesthesia in the lower limbs and lower limbs with very slight alteration in sensitivity inherent to the lower limbs.
Walking is conserved without support, including heels and tiptoes.
Walking hard enough without support
Another MRI study of the brain and cervical-dorsal region was carried out during the new admission to the Neurology ward, with the objective of rebleeding the intramedullary▁cavernous angioma.
The patient will be reassessed in Neurosurgery Departments, although there is no decision to make a future surgical treatment.
Upon discharge, the patient was in the basal situation prior to the second admission.
