PRESENTATION, PRESENTATION AND TABLET Female, 78 years old.
The patient had a history of hypertension, diabetes in oral treatment and hyperuricemic.
In addition, she had breast cancer treated 8 years ago with radical mastectomy, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, currently being free of disease.
Healed hepatitis B.
Intrathoracic goiter.
As a cardiological history, she had permanent atrial fibrillation treated with a direct anticoagulant. In the event of severe symptomatic aortic stenosis, due to a history of thoracic radiation, percutaneous replacement with an EVIvolut implant 26 years ago was decided Corevalve.
In usual treatment with digoxin 0.5 mg (1-0-0), dabigat 150 mg (1-0-1), valsartan/50loraninopril-005 mg (1-0-0-0-0), metformin 40 (0-0), metformin 8-0),
Febrile fever of one week onset, with fever of more than 38oC thermometered, treated with midazolam by her primary care physician due to suspicion of urinary infection, with little improvement.
Twenty-four hours after starting antibiotic treatment, the patient developed liquid diarrhea without pathological products and intense periumbilical pain. She also developed progressive edema in the emergency room and progressive dyspnea.
The patient denied cough or expectoration, chest pain, dizziness or syncope.
There is no neurological focus either.
She is admitted to the internal medicine service as a possible complicated urinary infection for study and treatment.
On physical examination, the patient had a blood pressure of 95/62 mmHg, a heart rate of 85 bpm, a fever of 37.9 ̊C, and was eupneic with nasal glasses at 2 l/min (saturation 97%).
Increased jugular venous pressure.
Upon auscultation, the patient presented with fever 80 bpm, murmur in the aortic area II/VI, and a second normal sound. The patient also presented hypoventilation in the bases and crackles in the middle fields.
The abdomen is blade, depressible and painful epigastric level, with no data of peritoneal irritation or visceromegaly.
Lower extremities with edema of the fovea to the knee, with no data of venous thrombosis.
Peripheral pseudoaneurysms present and symmetrical.
No peripheral stigma of endocarditis was observed.
COMMENTS ONLY Electrocardiogram: atrial fibrillation at 80 bpm, narrow QRS, normal axis.
Accreditation of repolarization corresponding to digital divide.
Chest radiography: cardiomegaly.
TAVI in aortic position.
Vascular and fluid▁redistribution in fissures consistent with heart failure
Upper▁mediastinum enlargement compatible with known endothoracic goiter.
Analysis: Biochemistry: glucose 98 mg/dl, Cr 1 mg/dl, FG 54 ml/min, urea 59 mg/dl, Na 125 mEq/l, K 5.8 mEq/l, digoxin 2.3 ng/dl.
Thyroid hormones were normal.
Liver function tests: AST 320 IU/l, ALT 270 IU/l, total bilirubin 2.64 mg/dl (direct 2.22 mg/dl), albumin 2.14 g/dl, amylase 449 U/dl
Ferric profile: iron 156 μg/dl, transferrin 120 mg/dl, STI 139%, ferritin 1.755 ng/ml.
ProBNP 3.410 pg/ml.
Infectious markers: CRP 152 mg/l, PCT 6.9 ng/ml.
Blood count: leukocytes 21,000/μl with 12% of falls, Hb 7.8 g/dl, platelets 91,000/μl.
Coagulation: INR 1.88, PT 42%.
Blood cultures: two positive series for methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus, with positive synergism with aminoglycosides.
Urine - isolated;
No leukocyturia or bacteriuria, negative nitrites Heces: normal flora, without signs and negative Clostridium difficile toxin.
Serology: HIV and HCV negative.
Anti HBs and Anti HBc positive.
Autoimmunity study: ANA, ANCA, Anti native DNA, ENAS, CH 50 and C4 normal and/or negative.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle with normal diameters and thicknesses and normal global and segmental systolic function.
Diastolic dysfunction.
Light dilation of the left atrium.
Normal functioning aortic biological prosthesis with known trivial insufficiency.
Mitral regurgitation and mild tricuspid regurgitation with mild pulmonary hypertension at rest.
No images suggesting endocarditis were detected.
Transesophageal echocardiography: TAVI CoreValve aortic bioprosthesis with several small mobile images, mainly at the level of equivalent right coronary leaflet and another small stent-like image, with identical characteristics, suggests this stent.
Clinical EVOLUTION Upon admission, antibiotic treatment with ceftriaxone with initial suspicion of pyelonephritis is initiated empirically, changing later to cloxacillin, rifampicin and gentamicin clinical suspicion at high dose.
A subsequent study was completed with transesophageal echocardiography that showed images compatible with endocarditis on TAVI, establishing the diagnosis with positive blood cultures for S. aureus.
Gentamicin treatment is maintained due to microbiological confirmation of a leak with cloxacillin, but the patient suffers a rapid deterioration of renal function, with glomerular filtration rate of 6 ml/min.
Rapidly progressive worsening with data of septic shock with anuria, decreased level of consciousness and coagulopathy, refractory to initial measures.
We discuss the case with cardiology, internal medicine and infectious diseases, and we discourage new valve replacement or other aggressive measures in this critical situation, dying in the context of septic shock secondary to endocarditis caused by TAVI.
DIAGNOSIS late endocarditis on aortic bioprostheses due to TAVI caused by Staphylococcus aureus.
Acute renal failure in the context of gentamicin.
Septic shock with multiorgan failure.
Death.
