We report the case of a 37-year-old male, born in Romania, who had been living in Spain for 6 years.
Smoker of about 30 cigarettes/day since the 15 years old packages/year.
He worked in a plastics plant and was diagnosed with silicosis by occupational exposure to sand blasts.
She had pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) 10 years before being treated in her country for six months with a daily regimen containing rifampicin.
She came to the emergency room with a fever of 39oC for one week, dry cough and odynophagia without other symptoms to the anamnesis by equipment and systems.
Physical examination revealed fever, 39oC, BP 130/70 mmHg, HR 112 bpm.
FR 12.
SatO2 98% at room FiO2.
Peripheral lymphadenopathy was not present.
Cardiac auscultation was normal, with no murmurs or frictions.
Pulmonary auscultation revealed generalized hypophonesis without rales.
The emergency laboratory showed 9600 x10e9/L leukocytes, 13.5% monocytes, and normal rest.
Renal function, ionogram and transaminate were within normal limits.
PCR 112mg/l.
The ECG showed no relevant changes.
The chest X-ray showed an increase in the cardiothoracic index, nodular image in the left upper lobe and bilateral perihilar interstitial infiltrate.
Chest CT showed progressive massive fibrosis secondary to silicosis with overlapping residual fibrotic tracts tuberculous, infectious involvement of the distal airway and severe pericardial effusion confirmed by transthoracic echocardiography.
Differential diagnosis At admission, the differential diagnosis was established between the causes of pericardial effusion: • Infectious Cassettes: any microorganism can affect the pericardium.
• Viruses, mainly coxsackievirus
You also need to think about HIV infection.
• Bacteria: the most frequently isolated in pericardial fluid are Staphylococcus spp, S. pneumoniae and Streptococcus spp.
Although less frequent in our patient, it is tuberculous pericarditis (PTB).
• Others: Ritsias, spirochetes, spirochetes, seizures, Trophery whippelii or Chlamydia.
Breast cancer, lung cancer and Hodgkin lymphoma.
Autoimmune lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis are the most common autoimmune diseases.
• metabolic candida: uremic pericarditis, hypothyroidism.
• Other: secondary to acute myocardial infarction, radiation, post-surgical, traumatological, pharmacological, chemotherapy.
• Idiopathic - Up to 70% of cases an etiology of the effusion may not be established.
It is believed that most of them are of viral origin.
Elent Sepsis was performed using a pericranial window with 150 ml of blood-fluid with 2380 leukocytes/μl (80% mononuclear) and determination of ADA and glucose within normal limits.
The clinical suspicion of pericarditisosa was established with 4 anti-tuberculous drugs of first line (isonia tuberculosis, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and etambu) without improvement of the clinical picture.
The HIV test was negative.
Sputum smears and mycobacterial culture of four sputum samples were negative.
The smear of the pericardial fluid was negative and in the culture of the same, in the middle of mycobacteria, M. tuberculosis resistant to rifampicin (R), isoniazid (I), pyrazinamide (P) grew, as well as the rest of the cap.
Treatment was modified to moxifloxacin, prothionamide and linezolid and prednisone 50 mg/day.
Antituberculosis therapy was continued for 18 months with good clinical evolution and a follow-up was performed for 24 months without recurrence.
Final diagnosis Persistent tuberculous colitis due to multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis.
