A 48-year-old, single male patient, with no drug allergies or personal history of interest.
He was a smoker of two packs a day and occasional drinker.
She did not undergo home medical treatment.
He came to the emergency department due to the appearance of nodular dermal lesions along with a slightly pruritic maculopapular rash affecting the▁thorax, back, genital region, upper and lower limbs for about ten days.
Fever of up to 38oC, chills, nausea, vomiting and anorexia
The patient denied intestinal symptoms, urinary symptoms or gross urinary abnormalities.
He did not report contact with animals or consumption of non-contaminated water or food.
The patient had not traveled abroad nor remembered arthropod bites.
He reported frequent risky heterosexual relationships.
Physical examination revealed maculopapular lesions with slight symmetric peripheral desquamation, located mainly in the▁thorax, back, upper and lower limbs, and cutaneous nodules isolated in the▁thorax and back-plantar, without palm involvement.
He also showed some preputial genital lesions similar to those described, without affecting the glans.
No chancro was observed.
The otorhinolaryngological examination showed a septic mouth, with a whitish lesion isolated in the left jugular mucosa, near the lip commissure, as well as a fusiform tumor at the level of the hard velum.
Cardiac and pulmonary auscultation and abdominal examination were normal.
▁Complementary tests performed in the Emergency Department showed the following results: 15.7 g/dl of hemoglobin; 14.610 leukocytes/mm3 with neutrophilia; normal serum bilirubin mEq/mm3, normal alkaline phosphatase UGT, normal urine profile 104 mEq/mm3; normal alkaline phosphatase
Abdominal ultrasound showed a slightly enlarged liver without other alterations.
Hemocultive, urocultive and serology tests were performed for Treponema and 2.um, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-HCV virus, varicella-zoster virus, HIV, herpes virus, HBV
Differential diagnosis Given the clinical characteristics and the results of the complementary tests performed, we must consider several entities that may be responsible for the clinical picture of the patient: Sarcoidosis.
It is a possibility, since the patient presented some characteristics that may appear in this disease, such as▁papules, plaques, nodules, anorexia, mild hepatomegaly and stasis.
However, the absence of arthralgias, erythema nodosum, lupus pernio, ocular involvement, lung disease, peripheral adenopathies, nervous or cardiac system involvement, and hypercalcemia do not support this diagnosis.
Systemic lupus erythematosus.
It is proposed in the presence of fever and dermal lesions.
In subacute cutaneous lupus,▁papulosquamous or psoriasiform, erythematous▁papules, slightly scaly, with symmetrical distribution and a tendency to confluence the▁thorax, occur mainly in our patient.
Therefore, we cannot rule out this disease, although it is true that we were faced with a male patient and did not present photosensitivity, malar rash, oral ulcers, polyarthralgias, arthritis, neurological disorders, seroses
Although it is unlikely, cutaneous lymphoma would be included in the differential diagnosis.
Our patient had papululose lesions that may appear in various dermal▁neoplasms.
Disseminated gonococcal infection would be unlikely in the case of a male patient with no history of urethritis or concurrence of arthritis, petechiae or vesiculopustules.
In addition, skin lesions in disseminated gonococcal infection are usually self-limiting within a few days, while in our case the patient reported having the rash about two weeks.
A cutaneous mycobacteriosis a diagnosis of fungal infection should be ruled out, especially Mycobacterium marinum and Mycobacterium chela infection, which can cause nodular lesions.
This diagnosis is unlikely because they usually have a sporotrichoid distribution in a limb from an inoculation point.
However, it should be taken into account, and perform anamnesis aimed at risk factors, such as contact with possibly contaminated water.
Alterations in liver biochemistry could make us suspect acute hepatitis.
However, transaminases were not excessively high, and dermal lesions are not characteristic of this clinical picture.
Sweet's syndrome should be included in the possible diagnoses, because it courses with▁papuloeritis, mainly in the arm, trunk and head, resulting in lesions associated with neutrophilia.
Although our patient had neutrophilia, it is a rare disease whose lesions are usually confined to a limited anatomical area, and is much more common in women.
Other diagnostic possibilities could be deep fungal infections, leprosy, leishmaniasis, cutaneous tuberculosis, Kaposi's sarcoma or drug eruptions, although several of them, in their typical forms, could be ruled out by simple inspection.
Secondary syphilis, known as "the great simulator", can give any type of dermal clinic.
Although papulmonary syphilis is uncommon, it is a possibility to consider in this case.
In addition, in the phase of treponemic dissemination, any organ can be affected and, in particular, there is the possibility of syphilitic hepatitis, with elevation mainly alkaline phosphatase, as occurred in our patient.
Constitutional symptoms such as fever, anorexia and general▁malaise also occur in secondary syphilis.
This stage of the lesions usually develops between the fourth and tenth week after the appearance of the chancro.
However, up to 40% of patients may not report any type of previous inoculation injury, as occurred in our case.
Patient admittance to hospital
Dermal lesions did not vary in size, morphology or location.
An evaluation was made by otorhinolaryngology, which after examination of the tumor of the velum of the hard palate, concluded that it was a palatal torus.
She was treated with nystatin and showed improvement of the whitish lesion of the left jugular mucosa present at admission.
A chest X-ray was requested, which was normal, with no hiliar lymphadenopathy or interstitial pulmonary infiltrate that could suggest sarcoidosis.
Magnetic resonance cholangiography was also performed, with no data on bile duct dilatation or other hepatobiliary or pancreatic pathologies.
A second analysis showed improvement in most parameters: 11,500 leukocytes/mm3 with 6,290 neutrophils/mm3; total bilirubin 1.3 mg/dL; direct bilirubin 0.7 mg/dL; alkaline GTT 147 U/L
Blood and urine cultures were negative.
Serological studies showed positive IgG for cytomegalovirus, negative IgM for Epstein herpes simplex virus and positive serology for varicella-zoster virus, negative serology for HIV, positive IgG1 virus and positive IgG antibodies.
After obtaining positive serology for you (secondary syphilis), antibiotic treatment was administered with single dose external beigylpenicillin and in patient (2,400,000 Ul by intramuscular route), due to the good clinical outcome.
A few hours after the injection, the patient developed fever and arthralgia of several hours duration (Jrisch-Herxheimer's phenomenon).
Two weeks later, the dermal lesions had completely disappeared and the analyses had normalized.
In subsequent visits, a more than four-fold decrease in non-treponemal antibody titres was observed.
Therefore, given the clinical signs, complementary tests and treatment effectiveness, we can conclude that the patient suffered from secondary papulla psoriasis.
Final diagnosis Secondary syphilis papullary gland with liver involvement.
