A 43-year-old man who, as the only medical history, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in December 2014 for two months due to septic shock of unknown origin associated with multiple organ failure, associated with rhabdolysis.
During follow-up in outpatient internal medicine (IM) clinics, only the presence of monoclonal component in serum and urine in the gamma area was observed as an interesting finding; in immunoelectrophoresis for IgG kappa protein.
In December▁2015, the patient came to the emergency department complaining of a 24-hour history of fever of 38oC, cough, asthenia and generalized arthromyalgia.
On arrival he was hemodynamically stable, with hypotension (TA 90/54), lower limb edema and oliguria after 24 hours, and the rest of the physical examination showed no abnormalities.
Analytical: Hb 20 g/dl, Hto 56.5%, leukocytes 16900 (14400 neutrophils), creatinine 1.46 mg/dL, CRP 5.1 mg/dL, rest normal.
After 12 hours, poor clinical outcome persisted, with generalised oedema, anuria and marked decrease in blood pressure (BP 63/54), tachycardia (115 bpm) and hypothermia (To 35 similar serum albumin, 26 mmol/ l).
He required admission to the ICU for this reason, and after failing to respond to diuretic treatment he developed hemostasis, which could be removed after 3 days of good evolution.
During their stay in the ICU, bilateral patchy infiltrates secondary to adult respiratory distress on chest CT were observed, as well as mild bilateral pleural effusion and minimal pericardial effusion on transthoracic echocardiography.
In addition, several cultures were performed for microbiological analysis, which were all negative, obtaining only influenza A virus isolation in nasopharyngeal▁exudate.
Once the patient was stabilized, he returned to the IM plant presenting adequate diuresis and normalization of analytical parameters.
The previous admission to the ICU of December 2014 was reviewed and it was found that the triad formed by hemoconcentration, hypoalbuminemia and hypotension was also present at that time.
All this, together with the already known presence of IgG-type paraprotein, supported the diagnostic suspicion of Systemic Capillary Fugue Syndrome, in this occasion secondary to infection by Influenza A virus.
Treatment with theophylline was initiated until serum concentrations of 10 to 20 mcg/mL and monthly intravenous immunoglobulins at high doses were achieved, with no clear improvement during follow-up, with a subsequent▁paulatin deterioration.
