A 52-year-old male, former smoker, who does not have any other cardiovascular risk factor.
Due to its past tobacco consumption, it has developed an unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil (T4bN2bM0).
At present, she was treated with cetuximab radically and radiotherapy.
Asymptomatic from the cardiological point of view until the night of the day before seeing that she has a pain center-thoracic, oppressive and radiating to the back and neck for a few hours.
She denied having had fever or infectious symptoms.
Consultation with a primary care physician who performs an electrocardiogram (ECG) in which they describe elevation of the inferior and lateral ST high and low, evaluating by members of the Canary Islands Emergency Department (SUCIAM) who informs the primary myocardial infarction.
Upon arrival at the Emergency Department, the patient was hypotensive, starting with dopamine at a dose of 15 mcg/kg/min, and was contacted with the hemodynamic section for emergency catheterization to assess the patient.
The ECG was repeated.
Physical examination revealed a poor general condition, with significant tachypnea and hypotension of 85/55 mmHg despite the catechiae and mild jugular engorgement.
Cardiac noises are very low without murmurs or friction.
The patient presented a bulloma in the erythematous neck, hot and painful to palpation.
Analytical COMPLEMENTARY PRUEBAS: there is no leukocytosis, normocytic normochromic anemia of 9.7 mg/dl and acute renal failure with creatinine of 2.4 mg/dL.
Hb: 13.3 g/dL, leukocytes 64,000, platelets 77x10^3/mcL.
Echocardiogram: it was found that global and segmental left ventricular function is preserved and severe pericardial effusion with a maximum of 36 mm in anterior level is detected.
Its appearance is dense, hyperechogenic and mottled.
The patient presented signs of hemodynamic compromise, with collapse of the left atrium and milder of the right ventricle.
Other complementary tests during admission: ECG: sinus rhythm at 100 bpm, normal PR, normal electrical axis, narrow QRS with generalized concave ST elevation (I, II, III, pericardial Streptococcus, V3-V6):
Contrast-enhanced chest CT: Bilateral pulmonary consolidations.
To assess possible bronchoaspiration.
Minimum right pleural effusion.
▁Pneumopericardium with drainage catheter inside.
Multiple liver abscesses in LHI.
LOE in LHI in relation to abscess versus metastatic disease (not in previous study).
Normal rectum, non-adenopathy mesenteric or retroperitoneal.
Neck CT: favorable response of neoplasia located on the left side and▁conglomerates adenoposis.
Significant response with decrease of the tumor global volume of neoplasia originating in the left lingual tonsil, persisting at this level residual necrotic lesion with a diameter of 24.8 + 30 mm, protruding to the left lateral mouth of the floor.
EVOLUTION We decided to perform urgent therapeutic pericardiocentesis in the catheterization laboratory.
A total of 600 cc of malloating fluid and purulent aspect were extracted at first.
After analyzing the emergency fluid, the patient was found to have purulent discharge and an S. constellatum was isolated, which was also isolated in blood.
An aetiological study was completed with a CT scan of the chest and abdomen to establish a possible origin of the purulent collection, finding multiple large liver abscesses, in which the culture grew different microorganisms, although also present in the oral microbiota.
In the first few days after drainage, the patient still needs▁catecholaminergic support for septic shock, so he was admitted to the ICU where empirical intravenous antibiotic treatment was started, and then adjusted to antibiogram later.
In the course of one week after the complete drainage of the fluid and despite optimal antibiotic treatment, the patient developed a new severe pericardial effusion.
Emergency pericardiocentesis and pericardium window were performed the following morning after surgery using endoscopy.
DIAGNOSIS Purulitis complicated with pericardial tamponade.
Polymicrobial septic shock with liver abscesses.
Location of amygda
