Background A 37-year-old South American male patient with recurrent seizures in Spain for 5 years.
No drug allergies.
Active life.
No cardiovascular risk factors.
No toxic habits.
She had no family history of cardiomyopathy or other inherited diseases.
No relevant medical or surgical history.
Current disease The patient comes to the Cardiology Outpatient Clinic of his company after objectifying in routine medical examination performed striking electrocardiographic changes.
Set up only sporadic episodes of regular brief episodes (2-3 minutes) unrelated to spontaneous withdrawal, with a weekly frequency.
She denied chest pain or dyspnea.
He has not had syncopes.
Physical training Good general condition
TA: 110/60 mmHg.
HR: 60 bpm.
Cardiac auscultation revealed fixed sounds.
No murmurs or extracts.
The vesicular eruption of the lungs is preserved without rales.
Abdomen: blando depresible, non-painful to palpation without masses or organomegaly.
Lower limbs: no edema.
Pedestriates, symmetrical
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES ECG: sinus rhythm at 60 bpm, first-degree atrioventricular block (PR 210 ms), complete bundle branch block of His bundle and left anterior hemiblock ST, convex inversion.
24-hour Holter monitoring: no supra- or ventricular arrhythmias were detected.
There was no evidence of advanced atrioventricular block.
Analytical: glucose 98 mg/dL, urea 32 mg/dL, creatinine 0.86 mg/dL (CrCl 110 ml/ min/ 1.73 m2 – CKD-EPI), sodium CK 79 mEq/L, potassium 4
Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index, without pulmonary infiltrates, free costophrenic sinuses, normal▁mediastinum.
Transthoracic echocardiography: LV slightly dilated (LVDD indexed by CS 3.3 cm/m2) with normal parietal thickness.
No changes in segmental▁contractility.
LVEF 52%.
Transmitral filling Doppler pattern of relaxation alteration.
RV of normal dimensions with systolic function by longitudinal parameters at the lower limit of normality.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging: minimum dilatation of both ventricles (LVDV 181/LVSTV 96 ml) with slightly depressed biventricular systolic function (LVEF 50%).
In the late enhancement sequence, multiple foci of transural enhancement of patchy distribution of septal pre-emptive, basal, lateral, and apical features suggestive of fibrosis are evident.
EVOLUTION Taking into account that the patient diagnosed with Chagas disease in an endemic area, serological tests were performed to detect the presence of antibodies against Trypanosoma cruzi, both of which were positive (ELISA1/ 8), and immunofluorescence.
Barium▁esophagogastric transit and abdominal radiography were also performed, ruling out gastrointestinal involvement.
The patient was diagnosed with good chronic cardiomyopathy (CCM) based on the results of serology, ECG, transthoracic echocardiography and cardiac MRI was indicated with betamethasone 100 mg/8h for two months.
Ten months after diagnosis, the patient presented a sudden death playing tennis.
The emergency services detected as first rhythm on his arrival asystole.
Advanced CPR maneuvers were not successful and the patient finally died.
Because death occurred outside the hospital, a forensic autopsy was performed.
Macroscopic and microscopic examination of the heart confirmed the characteristic involvement of the CCM.
DIAGNOSIS Chronic cardiomyopathy.
Dilatation and mild biventricular systolic dysfunction with transmural patched fibrosis in the LV.
Sudden cardiac death
