A 38-year-old patient was admitted to internal medicine due to diarrhea and edema.
As PA: morbid obesity intervened in 2001 by Scopinaro technique (modified PPD) in private (initial weight 145 Kg, BMI 47.3 Kg/m2), achieving a weight of 75 Kg, monitoring in private clinic with weight regain
Smoker of half a daily pack and moderate alcohol consumption.
No known drug allergies.
Unusual treatment.
He has not been supplemented with liposoluble vitamins or iron at any time.
I traveled to the coast of Indonesia in April/18 by non-rural area, in a scheduled cruise, a week later began with liquid diarrhea that did not respect the rest, was treated with antibiotics that did not remember the onset of lower limb/18 edema.
Pérrez de laissez-mouse de 5 Kg en 5-6 months.
Conserved food and appetite, no nausea or vomiting, 3-4 daily steatorrheal stools without pathological products.
On November 27, 18 patients were evaluated by the nutrition unit. Examination revealed current weight 72.4 Kg (without edema 67.3 Kg), height 1.75 m, BMI 23.6 Kg/m2.
PP in year and 4 months was 28.8% and in the last 5 months 6%.
Conserved general status.
Pallor of the skin and mucous membranes
Oedemas to the knees without a fovea
Analytically at our assessment: normal renal function, total proteins 3.7 gr/dl, albumin 2.2 gr/dl, prealbumin 8 mg/dl, low sideremia, normal hemoglobin B12 and folic acid levels 27dl.
In our patient, stool cultures (Cripidium and Giardia) were requested, as well as coprocultive Clostridium difficile toxin, all of which were negative.
Celiac disease was ruled out by negative transglutaminase and antiendomysial antibodies.
Urease test was performed to guide gastritis for Helicobacter pylori.
Abdominal ultrasound showed normal liver size, shortness of breath and echogenicity, with areas of focal steatosis and several simple cysts visualized in LHI.
A CT scan showed abdominal-pelvic changes, highlighting postsurgical changes after Billroth II gastrectomy.
Numerous mesenteric▁ganglia of oval morphology and up to 7 mm short axis, nonspecific.
Small bowel loops and normal caliber and parietal thickness colic framework.
There were no remarkable alterations in the intestinal meso.
Few peritoneal free fluid in the pelvis.
Rest of the examination showed no significant changes.
An▁esophagogastroduodenal transit with barium was requested: subtotal gastrectomy with good passage of contrast through the anastomotic mouth without visualizing reflux G-E.
Dilatation of the loops of the jejunum and of the ileum with fragmentation and contrast are observed, all of this according to an intestinal inflammatory process and intestinal malarsorption.
In addition, upper and lower endoscopy was performed: - Gastroscopy: Stomach of reduced size (1/3⁄4n ̈.
remaining) by previous bariatric surgery, without injuries.
Reduced caliber gastrointestinal surgical anastomosis, but sufficient for passage of the end without difficulty and without lesions.
About 25 cm are examined.
normal appearance of small intestine, from which biopsies are taken: small intestine mucosa without alterations, negative for celiac disease.
Colonoscopy: Mucosal thin intestine without significant morphological alterations.
Colon: colonic mucosa with minimal nonspecific inflammatory alterations in the lamina propria.
Rectus: rectal mucosa with minimal nonspecific inflammatory changes in the lamina propria.
Finally, a hydrogen alienation (H2) and methane (CH4) test was performed for the bacterial overgrowth study (SCBI) with lactulose/metallic acid positive result.
The patient was discharged in December/18.
Our patient was treated for SCBI with excellent response to rifaximin 600 mg every 8 hours for 14 days, and for H. pylori he required a first rescue therapy amoxicillin/metronidazole trimethoprim and eradication with 140 mg trimethoprim/methacyl trimetronidazole hydrochloride
He finished the therapy, already on an outpatient basis in March/19.
In our case, since admission nutritional support was established adjusted to their protein-energy requirements (1900 Kcal and 98 g protein) daily oral module with oligomeric oral nutritional supplements containing 400 protein to a normal protein diet.
In addition, supplementation with iron proteinsuccinylate 800 mg/12 hours, calcifediol 0.266 mg/15 days, serum vitamin E acetate 10 mg/kg and vitamin K-retinol deficiency 5000 days after palmo normal correction was established.
Besides a multivitamin and mineral complex.
At 6 months the anthropometric evolution, nutritional parameters, as well as those related to dementia were excellent.
