A 61-year-old male patient who was admitted to the hospital complained of sudden severe pain in the right shoulder (~ 24 hours).
On examination, the shoulder showed signs of erythema, swelling, increased▁perimeter and moderate functional impotence.
A palpable hepatomegaly was also observed, which was already known, with no peripheral lymphadenopathy.
The rest of the physical examination by equipment was normal.
The patient's personal history included an active farmer in La Ra area without chronic▁lymphocytic leukemia B (CLL-B) hyperleukemia due to long-term▁lymphotoxic syndrome see (C-IV) 4 weeks prior to consultation.
The patient had received a leukapheresis session so far, which was performed in the ICU of our center after implantation of a central venous catheter, along with hyperhydration and rasburicase episode of the last CHOP, and two cycles of chemotherapy.
As associated infectious complications until then, the patient had fever secondary to an outbreak of phlebitis in the upper limb ten days before.
Two microorganisms, a gram-negative bacterium (Acinetobacter baumannii-multiresistant complexococcus) and a Gram-positive complex, had been isolated from blood from both peripheral vein and transcatheter blood.
Initial empirical antibiotic therapy with piperacillin-ta plus vancomycin was adapted and switched to ampicillin/sulphate and colistin, both intravenously.
The vascular access involved in phlebitis was replaced with a new implantation in another body area.
On the tenth day of directed antibiotic treatment, atypical antipsychotics, and inflammatory signs of phlebitis were present.
There was no deep neutropenia but anemia, marked thrombopenia and global hypogammaglobulinemia.
A differential diagnosis was made and a series of clinical options and possible syndromes were proposed, requesting several new complementary examinations.
The plain radiograph of the right shoulder showed no relevant findings, neither calcifications nor crystals.
The Doppler ultrasound of the upper limb showed a deep venous system of the permeable limb, as well as the jugular veins, without signs of thrombosis, nor hypersensitivity or other findings of pathological significance.
Febrile appeared at 37.7oC and new blood cultures were taken.
A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the right shoulder was also performed, demonstrating a marked intermuscular edema and trabeculation of the fat pad of this region, associated with a significant effusion in the subacromial clavicular notch.
There were no bone erosions in the head hump or bone glenoid bones or changes in the rotator cuff.
At this time, shoulder arthrocentesis was performed, which was planned after infusing the platelet pool necessary for the practice of joint puncture. It allowed achieving a safe diagnosis of hemocultive fluid as the final etiological culture obtained
The vestibule and tumefaction of the shoulder that had appeared within the combined antibiotic treatment had not improved in successive days, but the arthrocentesis that was ill partially relieved the discomfort
Synovial fluid obtained (8 cc) was yellowish, with slight turbidity and inflammatory characteristics in the cytobiochemical study.
Seeding was carried out directly in solid media as well as in hemocultives media with enriched liquids, focusing on systems implemented.
When both the last hemocultives carried out and the bottles of solid hemocultives and bacteria lacking in the articular fluid showed positivity to microbial growth, stains of Gram-negative agar with special stains for chocolate (crydin and cellular walls).
Prolonged illiteracy of these passages to solid media in adequate atmospheres was also carried out.
This systematic approach allowed identifying very particular colonies belonging to Mycoplasma hominis bacteria in both samples (10-12 days) and identified as Mycoplasma hominis.
No other microorganisms were isolated in synovial fluid culture in routine media.
The effusion was resolved with antibiotic treatment of synovial pain IV (100 mg/12h) and then the patient experienced a clear clinical improvement of joint pain on successive days and a progressive reduction in joint phlogistic signs, as well as
The patient was discharged with orally administered oxybate, which was well tolerated until completing 4 weeks of arthritis treatment.
During follow-up in outpatient clinics, complete resolution of osteoarticular infection of the shoulder was found in clinical and imaging controls (NMR), leaving only a slight sequel as to the range of motion of some movements.
Currently, the patient is stable and in outpatient regimen for monitoring his CLL-B, which showed response to chemotherapy treatments. Remembered later cultures had been administered with M. faecalis, similar to those of the first hemoculias, in those
SINDROMIC DIAGNOSIS AND FINAL ETIOLOGICAL: Septic shoulder arthritis caused by Mycoplasma hominis (M. hominis) and in a patient with B-CLL infection
