A 44-year-old male without known drug allergies.
Ex-smoker for 8 years.
His personal history included HIV infection stage C2 with undetectable viral load since August 2017, the last CD4 count in May 18 of 536 cases of C Diseases in our hospital Infection3 (16%),
Her past medical history included Kaposi's sarcoma in remission, followed by cutaneous manifestations of normofunctioning goiter and chronic gastritis due to helicobacter pylori infection treated and cured.
The only epidemiological history was that the patient lived with a cat at home.
She was treated with TCF/TAF/EVG/EVG/COBI 1 tablet a day and 20mg/day.
The patient came to the emergency department with fever of 39oC, cough and herrumbrous expectoration, of a pubile appearance, of two weeks of evolution, without having noticed improvement after performing antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin / 12500 mg.
Upon arrival to the emergency department, the patient was febrile (38.5oC), hypotensive (93/58 mmHg), tachycardic (111 spm), with 98% O2 saturation without oxygen supply and eupneic at rest.
On examination, the patient was in a regular general condition and had non-profile sweating.
Cardiorespiratory examination revealed sinus tachycardia, without audible murmurs, conserved vesicular murmur, and without excessive noise.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible, non-painful to deep palpation, with no masses or enlargement, no signs of peritonitis or peritoneal irritation.
The lower limbs were not edematous and there were no signs of deep venous thrombosis.
oropharyngeal dysphagia without relevance.
No skin lesions.
▁Complementary tests performed in the emergency room showed leukocytosis of 20,840 cells/μl a normal neutrophil count (17,650 cells/μl), hemoglobin of 11.6 g/dl, with platelet count and coagulation.
Biochemically, he had preserved renal function and normal ionogram, with a C-reactive protein of 294 mg/L.
The chest X-ray showed a large cavitary lesion in the left lower lobe, with thickened walls and spiculated edges, without clamping costophrenic sinuses or other condensed images.
Chest X-ray at admission: cavitated lesion in the left lower lobe.
Blood cultures, sputum culture, Legionella spp antigenuria and Streptococcus pneumoniae in urine were obtained and an urgent Ziehl-Neelsen staining smear was negative.
Because of the clinical situation of the patient, it was decided to admit the patient to the infectious diseases service with the diagnosis of pulmonary abscess of possible bacterial etiology, starting treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 2g/200mg IV every 8 hours.
Differential diagnosis The diagnosis of lung abscess is mainly based on a detailed history, careful examination and the acquisition of compatible images, and the radiological and microbiological study is fundamental to reach a definitive diagnosis.
The most characteristic radiological image is usually a cavitated parenchymal infiltrate usually with air-fluid level although multiple cavitary lesions may also appear bilaterally, so there is always a need for a differential diagnosis between oral abscess sinus disease and seizures
They are usually caused by anaerobic germs such as Prevotella spp., Baoides spp., Peptosterococcus spp., Streptococcus milleri, or microaerophilic streptococci
Our patient had no risk factors that made us think of a possible bronchoaspiration, so this etiology was unlikely.
In contrast, in secondary lung abscesses, there is usually an underlying immune compromise, as was the case of our patient.
In this case, it differs from the primary ones and can be produced by: Staphylococcus aureus, gram-negative bacilli (P., other enterobacteria, other opportunistic pathogens such as abscessella spp., Leg aeruginosa etiology.,
Rhizococci equi.
Fungal infections: in immunosuppressed patients, as in the case presented here, it is necessary to take into account in the differential diagnosis opportunistic infections, such as Aspergillus spp and Zygtis spp.
• Leukophorebitis alcolic fevers are characteristics of endocarditis on the tricuspid valve (often due to Staphylococcus aureus) or in Lemièrre syndrome, in which the necrophorbitis of the lungs almost always occurs Fumi
In our case, the patient had no audible murmurs or signs of oropharyngeal infection that made us suspect an embolic pathologism.
In addition, pulmonary septic emboli are usually small and multiple.
• Pulmonary tuberculosis: it must always be present in cavitated lesions in immunocompromised patients.
Our patient had no epidemiological history and Ziehl-Neelsen requested urgently was negative, so that this etiology was unlikely.
However, more sputum smears and mycobacterial culture were requested, which were negative.
• Cavitated lung neoplasia: sometimes we are faced with a lung neoplasia that has been over-infected and can cause an image similar to that presented by this patient.
In addition, the edges of the lesion were thick and irregular and the patient had a history of smoking.
In our case, we performed FNA of the lesion that did not demonstrate the presence of malignant cells.
• In patients with rheumatoid arthritis or granulomatosis with polyangiitis we can find cavitated nodules that can make us think that we are facing a lung abscess, so it is important to make a detailed medical history with all the patient history.
Our patient did not present systemic symptoms compatible with previously undiagnosed diseases.
The patient remained febrile, with maximum temperature of 39oC.
Attention was paid to the continuing illoloating and pubtrida expector despite empirical antibiotic therapy.
The blood cultures performed in the emergency room were negative, as well as antigenuria for Legionella spp and S. pneumoniae, with abundant gram-negative bacilli being objectified in sputum culture.
A contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the chest and a ruled fibrobronchoscopy were requested.
After 6 days of treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 2g/200 mg IV every 8 hours, a Bordetella bronchiseptica was identified in the sputum.
After a systematic review of the available literature and before knowing the sensitivity, treatment with levofloxacin (500 mg/12h) and intra-cellular trimethoprim/methoprim and metoxazole (800/160 mg/8h) was started.
On the seventh day, the antibiogram showing resistance to ampicillin, cefuroxime, cefuroxime, cefepime and aztreoman was available.
The patient was completely afflicted with the combination therapy, with a progressive decrease in expectoration.
Chest CT showed a cavitated lesion in the posterior-superior location of the left lower lobe of 8 cm cc x 6 cm ap x 8 cm transversal with scarce air-fluid level and relatively thick bronchial basal segments consolidation also thickened basal walls.
Another small focus of consolidation of the peribronchial location was visualized in the consolidation site, and the findings were compatible with the clinical diagnosis of lung abscess with a small satellite inflammatory focus.
Computed tomography of the chest with intravenous contrast: cavitated lesion in the left lower lobe with thick walls and minimal air-fluid level.
Computed tomography of the chest with intravenous contrast (coronal cut): large cavitated lesion in the left lower lobe with associated alveolar consolidation that extends caudally.
Fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy was normal, and samples were sent to microbiology and pathology where cells were not observed. Culture of the samples was negative.
After CT findings, a CT-guided percutaneous drainage was requested. A scarce purulent material was obtained, in which Streptococcus was identified with resistance only to intravenous treatment, and a patient was treated with continuous oral anti-tuberculosis drugs after 750mg.
Levofloxacin was continued until 2 weeks later in the Infectious Diseases Outpatient Clinic.
At this time, she had a clear radiological improvement (Control chest X-ray at the end of treatment) and was completely asymptomatic, so treatment was stopped.
The total duration of treatment was 36 days.
Final diagnosis Pulmonary abscess by Bordetella bronchiseptica and Streptococcus constellatus in a patient with HIV C2 infection.
