A 75-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital with ataxia and cognitive impairment of 2 months duration, accompanied by▁epileptic seizures in the last 24 h. Her relatives denied fever or headache.
His personal history included well-controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia and hypothyroidism.
Her usual treatment included levothyroxine 50 mcg, enalapril 20 mg, simvastatin 20 mg, and metformin 2 g daily.
On physical examination, she presented stupor,▁malaise and normotensive with a Glasgow score of 11 (6-3-2), generalized hypertonia, myoclonic movements and nystagmus.
The reflexes were present and presented left Babinsky.
He had no meningeal signs.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation and the rest of the examination did not provide significant findings.
Laboratory tests showed normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate (GSR).
Liver, kidney and thyroid function, as well as ionogram, proteinogram, vitamin B and folic acid levels, RPR and venous gas authentication were also normal.
Levels of tumor markers (alpha fetoprotein of antigen carmine-caryocarmine-carcinogenic antigen CA 19.9, 125, 15.3 and neurospecific enolase) calcitonin and beta-HCG were not significant.
With respect to the autoimmune study (rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antigens, anti PR3, anti MPO, anti Ro and anti La, antimicrosomal, anticardiolipin and antiperoxidase antibodies were normal, as well as the levels of▁cryoglobulin.
Serology for HIV, HBV, HCV, Ritelia, Borrelia, Mycoplasma, Coxiella, Brucella, Adenovirus, Echovirus and ESR type II were negative.
The G-Ig for HSV type I was positive (1/160), but the Ig M titer was not significant.
Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and skull were normal, as well as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain with vascular sequences.
EEG showed diffuse slowing with alternating theta-delta waves without specific focalities or irritative paroxysms.
CSF analysis showed a 57.9 mg/dL hyperproteinorrhachia with 2 leukocytes per field and 620 proteins per mm3.
Glucose, ADA, VDRL, cultures, Ziehl-Neelsen and pneumococcal antigens were irrelevant.
The cytology also showed no alterations.
The study was extended by requesting levels of delta aminolevulinic acid, porphobilinogen, lead and arsenic in urine of 24 h, antigenuria of legionella, cortisol, anti-amphinin antibodies and ceruloplasmin.
A second lumbar puncture showed identical biochemical and microbiological parameters and ANAs, Ig G against Borrelia, immunoglobulin and band quantification and PCR for JC virus and Tropherima Whipplei negative.
Both PCR for HSV type I and Harrington's test (determination of prion protein 14-3 by immunoblot and colorimetry) were positive.
Antiviral treatment was started with a topical antiviral agent, which was replaced by ganvir due to transient acute tubular necrosis.
After 3 weeks of treatment there was no clinical response, stupor persisted, with generalized pyramidalism, nystagmus and myoclonus.
A second brain MRI performed 10 weeks after the onset of symptoms became normal.
The result of codon 129 polymorphism in CSF was received, showing homozygosity for the methionine gene (129 M/M), information compatible with the sporadic variant of CJD.
A brain biopsy confirmed neuronal loss and spongiform degeneration with vacuolization and multiple PrP deposits in immunohistochemistry.
No signs of herpetic encephalitis were observed, and the PCR of ESR-I in the brain biopsy was negative.
The patient died 3 months after the onset of symptoms.
The autopsy was rejected.
