A 66-year-old male, born in the United Kingdom, without drug allergies, former smoker and habitual consumer of beer and wine daily.
She has no relevant medical history.
The surgical history included vasectomy, varicose veins, and cystectomy.
You do not have any usual treatment.
In the last year, the patient developed mild pain, severe pain in the left hip, with sudden increase in pain in the last 2-3 weeks, even at rest, requiring outpatient analgesia.
One week later, the patient came to the emergency room of our hospital because there was no improvement in her condition and intense back-lumbar pain was associated with difficulty walking.
After the finding of severe arthrosis in the left hip, the patient was discharged home with symptomatic treatment (tapentadol and celecoxib).
Although pain is partially controlled, the patient returns to the emergency room for sudden loss of strength in the four limbs (predominantly left) of 72 hours of evolution.
It is accompanied by acute confusional syndrome with▁anterograde amnesia and auditory and visual disorders.
Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was also observed with unknown rapid ventricular response.
and effective pharmacological cardioversion is performed in the Observation Area.
Physical examination revealed fever up to 38.5oC, acceptable general condition, good hydration of the skin and mucous membranes with mild jaundiced conjunctival mucosa.
Telangiectasia without erythema palmaris is observed.
Rhythmic heart sounds without murmurs and conserved vesicular murmur.
Abdomen, anodinous.
Lower limbs with mild pretibial oedema
Neurological examination: conscious and oriented, without language alterations with normal cranial nerve pairs; tetraparesis predominantly crural and left (proximal and distal MSD: 3/5, proximal and distal flexor MID: 2/5, weak bilateral reflex;
You can't explore the gizzard.
▁Complementary tests performed at admission showed Hb 13.8 g/dl; platelets 90,000 /mm3; leukocytes 12.900 /mm3 (N 12.100).
In BQ: glucose 100 mg/dl, creatinine 1.3 mg/dl; Na 128 mEq/l, K 3.66 mEq/l, Ca 9.3 mg/dl, AST 110 U/I, ALT 92 U/I total
No findings were observed on chest and abdominal X-rays.
Cranial CT scan showed no significant findings and abdominal ultrasound with gallstones.
MRI of the spine was requested and blood cultures and urine samples were extracted.
Differential diagnosis The syndromic diagnosis of our case would be acute tetraparesis and febrile syndrome in a 68-year-old male.
The main processes to take into account in this situation are: 1) Infectious: bacteria would be the most related germs, especially Staphylococcus aureus or Mycobacterium tuberculosis (although it usually gives a chronic or subacute picture).
They can cause spinal cord injury due to direct myelitis or various foci such as vertebral osteomyelitis, epidural, subdural or subarachnoid abscesses.
Other bacteria to take into account are Treponema aculidium responsible for tertiary syphilis and the causes of meningitis: Neisseria meningitidis and Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Among the viruses, enterovirus, ESR-2, HIV, arthropod-borne viruses, VZV, EBV, etc. can be highlighted.
although they usually manifest with a more subacute course.
A minority of cases are related to infections caused by the manifestation of infections due to the characteristics of our case, which would be highly unlikely.
2) The vascular phenomena involved can be infarctions or spinal cord hemorrhages, occurring more frequently in those with certain congenital malformations.
3) Another process that could contribute to the clinic of our patient would be advanced degenerative osteoarticular disease or disc herniation, although it would not justify the fever or the speed of the clinical picture.
4) Neoplasms such as lymphoma, leukemia or bone metastases would be other entities to be ruled out, with a form of presentation of these entities.
5. Other causes related to this condition are autoimmune diseases that give rise to transverse myelitis (Behcet, APS, SLE,.) or inflammatory diseases such as sarcoidosis, although our patient does not seem to meet criteria
Finally, we must consider other less common causes (hereditary metabolic disorders, periodic familial hypokalemia) if after a large study, we have not reached a clear diagnosis.
To determine the presence of hemostasis after culture, antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone 2g/12h and levofloxacin 500/24h was initiated, which was later modified to linezolid 600 mg/12h
The spinal cord abscess was identified as L spinal cord malformation with cervical (C5-C7) and dorsal (C7-T2, T6-T7, T10-T11), spinal cord abscess secondary to spinal cord abscess secondary to spinal cord collapse (cm)
The cranial MRI was within normal limits.
These imaging findings were treated with Neurosurgery (multiple laminectomy at C3-C4, T1 and L4-L5 level and epidural drainages).
Staphylococcus aureus MS was isolated in cultures of epidural abscess samples and in blood cultures, changing antibiotic therapy to cloxacillin 2 gr/4h.
We completed serology for hepatitis, HIV, CMV, EBV, herpes virus and syphilis which were negative and a transthoracic echocardiography with findings of mild mitral and aortic regurgitation, conserved FVI and progressive study for epidural catheter-related endocarditis 11 days.
Two weeks after admission, a clear improvement was observed in clinical signs and symptoms at all levels, as well as negativization of blood cultures.
After completing 6 weeks with high doses of cloxacillin, it is modified orally with levofloxacin.
During its evolution, the pain of mechanical characteristics reappears at the level of the left hip, requesting a NMR of that area where degenerative changes in the left hip joint and moderate external iliac edema with obturate synovial effusion are observed.
Besides probable linear infarction in the proximal third of the femoral diaphysis.
It was decided to extend antibiotic treatment to a further 4 weeks with ceftriaxone and levofloxacin.
One month after the end of antibiotic therapy, it was decided to implant a left hip CCF, which is performed without complications, the patient is currently walking and being independent for his activities of daily living Final diagnosis • Epidural abscesses.
• Secondary multiple vertebral osteomyelitis.
Bilateral psoas abscesses.
• Severe arthritis of the left hip joint
• Acute tetraparesis secondary to epidural abscesses
