Antecedent 69 year old woman No known drug allergies She underwent an arterial hypertension for hypercholesterolemia bronchial asthma and pneumonia in 2009 chronic atrophic gastritis and chronic liver disease due to right-sided calcifying osteocalcoid syndrome shoulder
In 1990 the patient presented dysfunction of both prostheses, so a new replacement was performed by two mechanical prostheses.
Aortic prosthesis was placed at the coronary ostium level, because it was necessary to perform two locoregional saphenous grafts (vena anterior and right coronary artery).
In 2002, due to heart failure and hemolytic anemia, due to late periprosthetic leakage, a mitral valve replacement was performed. A new mechanical prosthesis was introduced and a new anterior saphenous vein graft was introduced into the descending coronary artery (ven).
In 2003, a DDD implantation was performed due to symptomatic sinus node disease with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
Asymptomatic from the cardiological point of view until 2014, the year in which she has several admissions for heart failure, the last of them in August 2014.
Current disease Patient admitted for a new episode of heart failure in December 2014.
A control transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) was performed, followed by a transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) that confirmed the presence of two periprosthetic mitral leaks (septal and posterior).
Considering the patient's morbidity and high surgical risk, leak closure is programmed percutaneously.
This procedure was performed on 01/08/2015 under general anesthesia and control of transesophageal echocardiography in the catheterization laboratory.
It is initially fixed through the right femoral vein and, after transseptal puncture, attempts are made to cross the posterior mitral leak (for being the largest one) in an antegrade manner, without success.
Therefore, the left femoral artery was punctured and the mechanical aortic prosthesis was fixed with a guide and a catheter with good hemodynamic tolerance.
Left atrial (LA) guide wire is acquired with a loop, externalizing it through the right femoral vein, creating an arteriovenous shunt (AV).
The size of the defect by 3D TEE is 10x4 mm, so a vascular device Plug 10x5 mm is elected for closure.
A releasing sheath passing through the defect to the left ventricle (LV) was advanced from the right femoral vein and the device was released from VI to AI with good placement and effective closure of the defect (video 3 and figure 1).
The procedure was completed and the puncture of the left femoral artery was closed with good results.
The patient was extubated in the ward and transferred to the Coronary Care Unit for follow-up in good clinical condition.
Physical location AT: 110/48 mmHg.
HR: 107 bpm.
Sat.02: 100% (reservory 100%).
Afebril.
Aware and oriented, good coloration of skin and mucous membranes, good peripheral perfusion, eupneic at rest.
Head and neck: no jugular engorgement.
Cardiac auscultation revealed fixed sounds.
Cholestasis of the lung: conserved mucus
Abdomen: blando, depredictable, non-painful to palpation, without signs of peritoneal irritation, without masses or enlargement.
Noises present.
Lower extremities: no edema.
Pedestriates present and symmetrical
Do not bruise in puncture areas.
Feasibility and mobility maintained.
Preoperative CHOLEMENTARY PRUES TTE: LV non-dilated or hypertrophic, with good global systolic function, apical aneurysm.
The mitral mechanical prosthesis showed slight systolic Doppler signal.
Aortic root not attached.
Mechanical aortic prosthesis with mild regurgitation and maximum gradient of 40 mmHg.
Moderately fixed AI
▁Right cavities.
▁Right ventricle (RV) with moderate dysfunction.
Moderate tricuspid regurgitation with a RV-AD gradient of 65 mmHg.
The estimated MAP was 80 mmHg.
Cable of setting in HV.
No pericardial effusion.
Preoperative TEE: mitral valve prosthesis with two periprosthetic leaks, one septal and one posterior, both of moderate character.
EVOLUTION In subsequent outpatient controls the patient reports to be better, with improvement of her functional capacity.
He's lost weight.
In subsequent control TTE, the patient had mild periprosthetic mitral regurgitation.
DIAGNOSIS Leaks or mitral valve stenosis.
