A 39-year-old male patient, born in a boss, resident in Jerez, who had been a construction worker for five years.
No toxic habits, allergies or recent travel abroad.
A history of seborrheic dermatitis on scalp.
She did not report any contact with animals in recent months.
She came to her primary care doctor for fever (38-39oC), chills, vomiting, and a painful tumor in the right armpit.
Treatment with NSAIDs was prescribed. Despite this, fever continued, increasing pain and size of the tumour, so that 4 days later she came to the emergency department with Amoxicillin 2000/125 mg every other day was recommended.
Despite this, the patient continued to have fever and the axillary tumor grew and became more painful, so she went back to the emergency department where she was admitted.
The patient had a regular general condition.
Aware, oriented and collaborating.
Good hydration of skin and mucous membranes.
Background.
Well infused.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation was strictly normal.
Abdomen blando, depresible, non-painful to palpation palpable, without visceral growths.
The right axilla presented a painful mass on palpation, ovoid shape, about 4 cm in maximum diameter and phlogistic signs in the adjacent skin.
Normal lower extremities
Blood count and coagulation tests were normal at admission.
Biochemical tests were normal except for a CRP of 28.87 mg/dl (normal < 0.5 mg/dl).
Serology for HBV, HCV, HAV, Coxiella burnetti, Toxoplasma burnets, Loes, HIV, EBV and rubeola were negative, as well as febrile blood cultures.
Ultrasound of the soft tissues of the axillary region showed a 4 cm polylobulated collection in the right axilla, with other rounded images very hypoechogenic adjacent fat, some preserving hylium.
Impression: complicated hydrosadenitis.
▁Complementary manifestations in the patient with the findings shown in the examination and tests began antibiotic treatment with cloxacillin + ceftriaxone and underwent surgical echography to drain the axillary collection visualized.
A superficial incision was made that allowed us to▁appreciate a deep tumor suggesting that it was a large axillary adenopathy, so no procedure was performed at these times, suggesting the surgeon the convenience of completing the study.
After surgery the patient continued with high fever and severe pain in the right axilla despite antibiotic treatment.
The external evolution was decided to perform an abdominal CAT scan in which it was normal, except for the presence of a space occupying lesion in the right axilla, 5 x 3.5 cm, with blurred edges
The patient had hypodense zones in the interior and after contrast injection showed peripheral uptake.
Radiological diagnosis: Adenopathia acessificans, without ruling out other underlying pathology.
Other multiple and small lymph nodes adjacent to the main were also observed.
After obtaining these data, it was decided to perform an aspiration puncture of the lesion, obtaining purulent material.
Two days later the tumor fustulized and drained spontaneously.
Differential diagnosis The following diagnostic possibilities were taken into account with the syndromic diagnosis of suppurated axillary adenopathy: • Pyogenic axillary abscess: usually secondary to hydropsadenitis, the germ most associated with Sogenure.
• mycobacterial infection.
As it is well known, M. tuberculosis is the causative agent of adenopathies, which up to 10% are suppurated.
M. avium and M. scrofulaceum can also cause lymphadenitis, with frequent spontaneous suppuration and consolidation in the second case.
• Yersinia pestis should be considered, but it is not endemic in our environment and although the patient was a bosian, he had not traveled outside Spain.
•ella tularensis, Bartonella henselae and Sporothrixs chenckii are microorganisms that can cause such episodes, affecting the first two microorganisms upon contact with animals.
In the directed interview, the patient reported that her son had had a cat dog three months ago, having suffered some spiders from the family.
• Chlamydia trachomatis is another possible cause of suppurative lymphadenopathy, particularly in the inguinal region.
The patient was predominantly sexually active.
• Hodgkin's lymphoma produces fistulized lymphadenopathy in up to 2 % of cases (chronic and nodular) so it must be considered in a young patient with fever and this type of adenopathy.
• Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease usually occurs in young people with fever without apparent source and is a cause of lymphadenopathy, which can be suppurated.
Sepsis was controlled by empirical treatment with Clarification 500 mg, one tablet every 12 hours with adequate tolerance.
In the following days the evolution was adequate to &#64257;sulate and drain spontaneously.
Antibiotic treatment was continued for 14 days and all symptoms disappeared.
In subsequent revisions the patient remains asymptomatic and without new signs or symptoms.
Final diagnosis The results of microbiology and pathological anatomy of the pus of the adenopathy were received.
▁Cytology was inflammatory, whereas cultures from bacteria and mycobacteria were negative.
Given the clinical suspicion, a positive PCR for Bartonella henselae was performed.
With these data the final diagnosis of cat scratch disease was made.
The patient received oral treatment with 500 mg azithromycin on the first day and 250 mg azithromycin on the following four days.
At 48 hours she was asymptomatic and was discharged.
