A 35-year-old port worker presented with a fever of up to 40oC for six days, along with generalized weakness, vomiting, diffuse abdominal pain, diarrheal detachment, oliguria and i stool.
The patient reported smoking, cannabis and drinking (76 grams of alcohol/day).
He has not traveled abroad and has no contact with animals.
Physical examination at admission: conscious and oriented.
Ta 40oC, TA: 140/70 mmHg.
There was a marked subconjunctival seizure associated with bleeding in the oral mucosa.
Cardiorespiratory arrest was normal.
Abdominal pain and constipation without signs of peritoneal irritation.
No enlargement.
A normal examination was performed.
▁Complementary tests: • Blood count: hemoglobin 13.7 g/dl, leukocytes 15000/mm3 (88% PMN) and platelets 35000/mm3.
▁Cytomorphology: granulation neutrophilia, mild anisopoichycyliocytosis, without schistocytosis.
• Coagulation: prothrombin activity 70%, fibrinogen 7.5 g/l.
• Biochemistry: urea 151, mg/dl, creatinine 10 mg/dl, sodium 132 mEq/l, potassium 3.2 mEq/l, Creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) 554 U/I, alkaline bilirubin U/dl
PCR 79 mg/l.
VSG 88 mm/h.
• Urinary sediment: microhematuria, positive nitrites, mild leukocyturia, high positive bilirubin.
Venous gas: pH 7.38, pCO2 38mmHg, pO2 37mmHg, BE -2.6.
• Chest X-ray and ultrasound scan of the abdomen without pathological findings.
Infectious variants In the differential diagnosis of a patient with fever and initial urticaria, the following causes should be included: biliary tract infections (colang, biliary tract infections), acute viral hepatitis and liver abscesses.
Non-infectious hepatitis, such as alcoholic hepatitis and ischemic hepatitis (vasculitis, catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome), is another possibility.
Abdominal ultrasound shows an anodyne bile duct, excluding cholangitis, biliary strictures and liver abscesses.
Elevation of transaminases is mild (does not exceed 10 times the normal value) which goes against acute viral hepatitis and ischemic hepatitis.
Although the patient consumes alcohol daily there are no data suggesting excessive consumption (macrocytosis, vascular spiders,▁parotid hypertrophy, AST/ ALT<2, ALT with slight elevation).
In this context of alcoholism, fever may be caused by non-infectious causes such as alcoholic hepatitis, acute pancreatitis or hepatocellular carcinoma.
High amylase, normal ultrasound and mild elevation of transaminases without a clear predominance of AST> ALT rule out these processes.
It presents mixed hyperbilirubinemia without a defined pattern: neither disproportionate alkaline phosphatase), nor diffuse hepatocellular damage (transaminases are not alkaline disproportionately elevated).
The association of acute renal failure or paretic with a non-nephritic urinary sediment, with kidneys of normal size and intact parenchyma, according to ultrasound, indicates that it is a prerenal condition.
In this context, another diagnostic possibility is hemolytic uremic syndrome, since it presents renal failure and thrombopenia but not hemolytic anemia or schistoocytes in peripheral blood smears, nor would it explain the hepatic involvement.
Another diagnostic possibility is the antiphospholipid syndrome catastrophic primary manifestations due to the appearance of several organs and the development of clinical manifestations in a week, but it is a picture that occurs with a higher frequency in women (72%) against systemic lupus erythematosus.
Hepatic infections due to colitis are unlikely because they are not immunosuppressed or neutropenic patients.
Not having traveled abroad is unlikely to be infected with hepatic trematodes such as Clonorchiasis, hepatic Fasciola and Opistorchisis.
The findings of hepatic and renal failure, thrombopenia, fever and hemorrhage are suspected with systemic repercussions.
Acute renal failure with normal potassium levels, elevated creatine phosphokinase muscle isoenzyme (in the absence of trauma, physical exercise or recent intramuscular injection) and leptospirosis also suggest the presence of specific epidemiological hemorrhage together with a recent diagnosis of leptospirosis.
Not having traveled abroad excludes other infectious diseases such as Hantavirus, dengue fever and Paludism that share symptoms and endemic patterns similar to leptospirosis.
Another disease to consider in the differential diagnosis is rickettsiosis which can mimic leptospirosis.
The patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit during the first 48 hours, progressing favorably with diuretics, empirical antibiotic therapy and platelet transfusion.
Hemocultive, urocultive and coprocultive were negative.
Serology was performed against cytomegalovirus, herpes, toxoplasma, varicella, varicella, infection type-3, fever passersin, Borrelia burgdorferi, enterococcella burnetti.
Hepatitis virus: HAV IgM negative, HbsAg negative, Anti Hbc negative and Anti HCV negative.
The patient was successfully treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics (meropenen, and hydroxy) with normalization of renal function and normalization of platelet counts, bilirubin and progressive transaminase reduction metronidazole.
Upon discharge, the patient was asymptomatic and home treatment was maintained with the syndromic management. A sample was sent to the reference center for leptospirosis with positive IgM results.
Final diagnosis icterozoaemic leptospirosis or Weil's disease.
