PRESENTATION, PRESENTATION AND EXPLORT A 19-year-old female patient with a history of anorexia-bulimia for two years in psychological treatment, without toxic habits
It was diagnosed in January 2016 of severe spinal cord aplasia, unresponsive to treatment, on a waiting list for a bone marrow transplant.
She had subcutaneous venous reservoir.
Current history: fever up to 39°C, vomiting and dizziness of less than 24 hours of evolution.
She also developed dry, irritative cough for about 15 days.
No rhinorrhea, no otalgia.
Non-clinical voiding.
No alterations of depositional habit.
Placement of a transfusion in the past
She complained of pain and discomfort in the reservoir area of a week of evolution, with erythematous area and increased local heat.
Physical Education: mental health.
Heart rate 123 bpm.
Temperature, 38.50 °C.
Basal 99 % oxygen saturation
Aware, oriented, reactive.
Glasgow 15.
Cardiac arrest: cardiac rhythmic, tachycardic noises.
No murmurs are heard.
Pulmonary consolidation was normal in all fields.
Bilateral RPP was negative.
IIS: no edema, no signs of DVT.
Abdomen: blando, depresible, painful to palpation epigastrium.
No masses or visceromegaly were found.
Conserved peristalsis, no signs of peritonitis.
Blumberg and Murphy were negative.
Analytical COMPLEMENTARY PRUES: 900 leukocytes with 400 neutrophils per dl, Hb 9.8 g/dl, hematocrit 28.5 %, platelets 8,000.
Glucose 103 mg/dl, urea 42 mg/dl, creatinine 0.67 mg/dl, total bilirubin 2.11 mg/dl, Na 136 mEq/l, K mEq/l.
FA 71 mg/dl, GGT 15 mg/dl, GOT 89 mg/dl, GPT 106 mg/dl, LDH 144 mg/dl.
Blood culture: positive for Staphylococcus epidermis, resistant to cloxacil.
Chest radiography: possible consolidation focus in RLL.
Echocardiogram: normal LVEF and contractile non-contractile LVEF.
Normal diastole.
Non-Assignment insurance
MV of thin veils, preserved▁kinetics, non-MI.
The aortic valve was trivalvular, with thin veils and normal flow.
▁Right cavities (RV entrance line 50 mm and AD area 23 cm2) with preserved function.
VT: thickening (11 mm) of the posterior and proximal subvalvular ring as well as of the entire posterior leaflet.
At least two masses are observed, echoden of atrial movement and almost 2 cm long originating in the auricular region of the ring and posterior leaflet suggestive of gross involvement.
Smaller mobile images were seen on the other two veils.
A rounded image, echodense on the distal subvalvular, very mobile corresponding to fibrosis of the subvalvular but without being able to rule out endodontic affectation at this level given the clinical context.
Severe TI without clear veil perforation.
No apparent mobile images on central catheter tip of DA were observed.
PAPs 30-35 mmHg.
Transesophageal echocardiography: VT compatible with TTE: thickening of the posterior and lateral region of the ring as well as of the leaflets, without observing abscessed formations.
At least two thick masses, compatible with posterior arch movement, of about 16 mm in length and 7 of width, originating in the auricular region, in the endo-domain junction and lateral veils.
Severe tricuspid regurgitation with more echodense formation in the distal subvalvular, possibly corresponding to fibrosis, cannot be ruled out with endodontic training at this level.
EVOLUTION The patient is admitted to the Hematology Department for broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment and transfusion of irradiated products (2 CH and 1 pool of platelets in the Emergency Department).
Having suspected reservoir infection and possible endocarditis, a transthoracic echocardiogram was requested, which showed endocarditis at the tricuspid valve level, which was confirmed after TEE.
A broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment was started, waiting for clinical response and evaluating options after 6 weeks of antibiotic therapy.
DIAGNOSIS Severe medullary aplasia unresponsive to treatment.
Endocrinitis on tricuspid valve due to Staphylococcus epidermis.
