We report the case of a 52-year-old male without known drug allergies, smoker of 60 packs/year, drinker of more than 70 g of alcohol per day and drug user in parenteral treatment with methadone (UDVP).
He was diagnosed with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in 1993, with last stage A2, defining antiretroviral treatment with non-occurring opportunistic infections (HIV), didanosine (ddI) adherence and nevirament (N).
In his last review (October 2014), he had a CD4 lymphocyte count of 500-749 cells/mm3 and a viral load of less than 10,000 copies/ml.
He was also diagnosed with liver cirrhosis (Child A) due to chronic infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1-A for which he was initially treated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin with good response, finally suspended in May 2014.
Stage F4 (49 Kpa) and ultrasound (the latter not performed by the patient) were requested, with the last virological load control in October 2014 quantified at 4,000,000 IU/ml.
It also presents a history of self-limiting episodes of palpable purpuric vasculitis lesions in acral parts with positive▁cryoglobulins, compatible with mixed▁cryoglobulinemia, under study and follow-up for the presence of mixed▁cryoglobulinemia.
The patient came to the Emergency Department of our center and was brought by his family member in January 2015; he reported a significant picture of his general condition, associated with lower skin lesions, edema, bradylalia and erythema last 24 days of disorientation.
Upon arrival to the emergency department, the patient was in poor general condition, with temporospatial disorientation, inconsistent language, and somnolence, with 12 points on the Glasgow scale, ocular response to verbal stimuli and without▁obeying orders or capacity.
The patient shows signs of disorientation in the skin and mucous membranes, hemodynamic stability (blood pressure 111 mmHg and heart rate 62 bpm), and remains persistent afflict with tendency to hypothermia (35.4oC).
Neurologically there is no▁rigidity of the neck or other meningeal signs, with normal and isochoric pupils and preserved extrinsic flexor eye movements, without other significant plantar-cutaneous cutaneous reflexes.
Cardiopulmonary examination revealed rhythmic and pure heart sounds, without audible murmurs, and preserved breath sounds without pathological sounds over-added, eupneic air with 98% pulse.
The abdomen is blandom and depressible, with no apparent pain points or signs of peritonitis, conserved hepatomegaly of about 3 cm below the costal margin and hydroaerial sounds.
Maculopapular dermatologic lesions and blisters of the feet in hands with accompanying edema and erythema were observed.
▁Complementary tests included coagulation, biochemistry, venous gas, electrocardiogram, chest X-ray and serial blood tests.
Analytically stands out leukocytosis 25050 cells/ mm3 with 17443 neutrophils/ mm3, prolonged clotting times with INR of 3.6 mEq/ mm3, mild acidosis (pH 7.33, pCO2 36.9 mmol/ l).
The chest X-ray and ECG showed no pathological findings.
Differential diagnosis We are in a patient coinfected with HIV/HCV with no adherence to treatment who presents with acute encephalopathic picture associated with severe deterioration of his general condition, acute cutaneous lesions and erythema rectilinear elevations palpable extremities.
First, due to the possibility of acute meningitis, early empirical antibiotic therapy with cefoxime 2g intravenous (iv) and dexamethasone is administered.
treating severe sepsis with probable focus on soft tissues or central nervous system associated with multiple organ failure, extends empirical antibiotic therapy with vancomycin and ampicillin, maintaining corticosteroid failure
Encephalopathy, whatever the primary condition in this condition, seems reasonable to present a multifactorial component of encephalopathy, and given the chronic HCV infection the patient suffers, it can even be considered a hepatic predominance of the process with development.
The presence of an opportunistic infection, an entity associated with HIV or even AIDS-defining disease cannot be ruled out at this time, and we must remember that the patient is an active consumer of intravenous toxics.
Finally, we cannot forget the possibility that the current condition is secondary to suspected mixed▁cryoglobulinemia in this patient.
erythema multiforme, ecchymosis and erythema multiforme, ecchymosis on the skin and mucous membranes
Evaluation was requested by the Intensive Care Service, which indicates admission to the unit.
During the first hours of admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), the development of thrombopenia (76000 platelets) is observed, associated with the lengthening of coagulation times detected in the emergency room and other techniques that will not be maintained during diagnostic
It is jointly valued by the Infectious Diseases, Pathologies and Intensive Care services to coordinate a strategy called Therapy Care, maintaining specific HCV empirical antibiotic therapy, including antiretroviral therapy after tenofovir in combination with antiretroviral therapy, plus therapy for HIV function.
It was decided to start treatment with cyclophosphamide due to the high suspicion of▁cryoglobulinemic vasculitis.
Likewise, antibiotic prophylaxis is started given the baseline pathology of the patient in the absence of stable treatment.
72 hours after admission, Microbiology reports the growth of yeasts in hemocultives at admission, for which empirical treatment with caspoline was initiated.
Finally, Candida albicans remains as a fungal infection that fails to separate the focus from fluconazole.
On the sixth day of mycobiology, he again reports the growth of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus in initial admitted hemocultives.
The patient was evaluated by the ophthalmology services, without finding alterations in the examination of the eye fundus; Cardiology, which performs echocardiography, detecting left atrial vasculitis keeping cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids, recommending the absence of systolic cavity lesions.
Cranial CT scan was also performed, which was normal, with a viral load of HIV3000 copies/ml and cell count (200 CD4/mm3).
The patient begins to evolve favorably, with improvement of renal, hepatic and neurological lesions,▁dermatological lesions, as well as decrease of its acute phase reactants, which once stabilized diseases continue to hospital discharge, causing a favorable evolution.
▁Definitive diagnosis The patient was discharged with the diagnosis of mixed▁cryoglobulinemia secondary to HIV/HCV coinfection with development of severe sepsis of probable origin in soft parts with candidemia caused by Candida albicans and bacteremia
