A 63-year-old male with multiple cardiovascular risk factors (hyper May 18 admitted with mechanical ventilation and type 2 diabetes mellitus in treatment with oral antidiabetics, dyslipidemia and obesity), COPD, chronic vasogenic renal disease with permanent atrial shock base of 1.2 mg.
The patient had implantable cardiomyopathy probable embolic origin, with left ventricular systolic dysfunction with an estimated left ventricular ejection fraction of 20%, with implantable single-chamber automatic device as primary prevention in 2003.
The admission echocardiogram showed severe aortic stenosis and double mitral lesion with moderate regurgitation and mild stenosis of probable origin relapsing with important velum calcification.
Given the patient's situation and his personal history (EuroScore II 19.35%), it was decided to implant a transcatheter aortic prosthesis Edwards SapienTM, transfemoral treatment of 29 mm by means of "self".
The echocardiogram after implantation showed a normal functioning aortic prosthesis with 5 mm Hg transprototic mean gradient and mitral regurgitation without changes with respect to preoperative echocardiogram.
Four months after the procedure, the patient was readmitted to our hospital with multiple non-controlled automatic implantable discharges accompanied by fever and chills.
The device data were analyzed and multiple episodes of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia were observed, most of them completed with discharge, and the patient did not detect.
All episodes were preceded by marked bradycardia requiring stimulation of the seizures.
Stimulation increased to a minimum heart rate of 75 bpm and blood cultures were positive for Staphylococcus epidermis.
These results, persistent fever and elevated acute phase reactants and a history of TAVI implantation were ruled out for infective endocarditis and a transesophageal echocardiogram was performed.
Echocardiography showed a large hypoechoic vegetation of 4.3 × 1.9 cm, with an irregular edge undamaged that extended from 1 cm below the valve plane to 3 cm above the stent gradient that led to severe stenosis LVED 38 mm.
The mitral valve presented extensive degenerative alterations, with severe calcification of the leaflets and subvalvular apparatus, and a severe jet of central insufficiency.
Antibiotic treatment with daptomycin and phosphocymine was started and the case was commented in a medical-surgical session.
The patient did not show clinical or echocardiographic improvement and surgical intervention was decided.
During surgery, large vegetations were observed on the ventricular and aortic side of the prosthesis.
TAVI was explanted and aortic valve replacement was performed with a 25 mm Magna Ease biological aortic prosthesis.
In addition, mitral valve replacement was performed with a 25 mm Magna Ease biological prosthesis.
The explanted prosthesis was analyzed microscopically with Gram stain, where gram-positive▁cocci were observed in clusters, and cultures performed on the prosthesis were positive for Staphylococcus epidermis.
Subsequently, the patient had a good postoperative evolution without associated complications, and was discharged after completing the antibiotic treatment cycle for 5 weeks.
