PRESENT ANESTHETIC ANESTHESIS, PRESENTATION AND EXPLANATORY A 26-year-old male admitted for chest pain and elevated markers of myocardial damage.
ANESTHETIC DISEASE PERFORMERS, natural from Colombia.
Resident in Spain for a month.
Work as a gardener.
No known drug allergies.
No cardiovascular risk factors.
No toxic habits.
She had no personal or family history of cardiologic disease.
Surgical interventions: a cystectomy after a traffic accident.
Previous medication: none.
BACKGROUND: An asymptomatic patient from a cardiovascular point of view, who two weeks before admission begins episodes of oppressive centrothoracic pain radiating to both jaws, unrelated to exercise or respiratory movements.
No association was found between vegetative cutting.
Self-limiting cessation thereof in a few minutes.
He also complained of nonspecific dizziness and occasional dysthermic sensation without fever thermometered.
No episodes of syncope, dyspnoea or non-clinical symptoms.
She denied previous infectious symptoms.
Afebrile PHYSICAL ASSESSMENT, blood pressure 106/62 mmHg, heart rate 60 bpm, basal O2 saturation 98%, self-reported weight 70 kg.
Aware, oriented and collaborating.
Well hydrated and infused.
Good general condition.
Eupneic at rest.
Normal jugular venous pressure.
No adenopathies.
Cardiac arrest: non- murmurs or faces.
Pulmonary auscultation revealed respiratory sounds without overriding sounds.
Abdomen: blade, depressible and non-painful.
No masses or enlargements.
Peristalsis.
Lower extremities: no edema.
Distal walls present and symmetrical
COMMENTS ONLY Electrocardiogram: sinus bradycardia at 50 bpm.
Normal PR.
narrow QRS.
Q wave at the limit of pathological significance and ST elevation 0.5 mm in the lower face.
Blood analysis at admission: haemoglobin 15 g/dl, platelets 350,000 u/mm3, leukocytes 11.3 x103/mm3 (asymptomatic neutrophils 33.4%-3790 mEq/l, lymphocytes 31.4%-3560 or normal▁eosinophils
Chest radiography: normal cardiothoracic ratio.
No acute pleuroparenchymal lesions were observed.
Transthoracic echocardiography: left ventricle non-dilated, normal-thickness, without changes in segmental▁contractility.
Normal systolic function (LVEF Simpson biplane 65%).
Hyperechogenic appearance of inferolateral wall myocardium respecting endocardium.
Normal-sized right ventricle with preserved systolic function.
Mitral valve with normal appearance and function.
Aortic valve was trivalvular, without insufficiency or stenosis.
The tricuspid valve had a normal appearance, with minimal insufficiency.
Normal functioning pulmonary valve.
Normal-sized aortic root, non-coarctation.
No pericardial effusion.
Cardio-MRI: preserved ventricles of size and function.
Hypokinesia, edema and late intramyocardial enhancement were observed, predominantly subepicardial in the inferolateral side; findings that may be related to mycositis in the appropriate clinical context.
Coronary artery TAC: total calcium score according to Agatson index 0.
Coronary arteries without anatomical variants, observing preserved permeability of them, without thrombotic or stenotic images.
▁CLINICAL EVOLUTION The patient is admitted to the coronary unit for monitoring and expansion of additional tests.
As a specific cardiologic test, a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed first, which was normal and then a cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) was performed, which was compatible with myocarditis.
After 48 hours without development of complications related to cardiac arrest or heart failure, the patient was admitted to the hospital for further care and completed studies.
An admission leukocytes due to IgM infection persisted in laboratory tests. Posterior laboratory tests revealed a persistent positivity of Toxo spp., which prompted an evaluation by internal medicine that extended the battery of tests with autoimmunity
Subsequently, a CT scan of the coronary arteries was requested to rule out embolisms, which was also normal.
suspected eosinophilic myoarthritis secondary to Toxo infection, treatment with albendazole was initiated.
The patient had a good clinical evolution and was discharged from the hospital after 7 days asymptomatic, with normalization of myocardial damage markers and decreased.
eosinophilic colitis within the context of toxocariasis.
