A 61-year-old male, resident in the southwest of Madrid, with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with poor metabolic control, dyslipidemia and asymptomatic ventricular extrasystole with normal cardiac study.
During routine control of DM2, pancitize is observed.
The patient also presented severe hypoxia, non-quantified loss of appetite and asthenia over the last months, and fever of up to 38oC.
She works in construction, lives in town, but has a plot in the field with several dogs.
On arrival TA 122/67 mmHg, HR 91 bpm, SatO2 97% without O2, 37.8oC stands out.
Good general condition.
Physical examination showed no relevant findings.
Analytically, 2 970 leukocytes (lymphocytes 40%, neutrophils 34%), 8.2 g/dL hemoglobin, and 94,000 platelets.
Peripheral blood smear confirmed the presence of pancit, without blast cells being detected.
Normal coagulation.
Glucose 253 mg/dL, glycosylated hemoglobin SGA 22 mm in the first hour, LDH 443 IU/L, ferritin 1157 ng/mL.
The proteinogram shows a polyclonal increase of gammaglobulins.
Tumor markers are negative (CEA, PSA, alpha-1-fetoprotein, HCG-Beta).
Autoimmunity study with ANA and ANSD was negative.
A chest X-ray and a transthoracic echocardiogram were requested, which were normal, and an abdominal ultrasound showed an enlarged spleen (13.7 cm long axis x 4.7 cm transverse axis).
Microbiological study showed positive antibodies to Leishmania in two determinations, positive IGRA, two negative hemocultive and sterile urocultive.
It is performed during the spinal cord aspiration admission.
Histological findings refer to a reactive medulla without evidence of a neoplasic process.
Direct examination showed no bacteria, mycobacteria, or allergies; subsequently cultures were negative.
With these clinical and patient data, cellular sclerosis is established as the first diagnostic possibility, therefore treatment with liposomal amphotericin B is started at a dose of 3 mg/kg until a total cumulative resolution of 21 mg/kg.
Subsequently, the result of PCR for Leishmania in bone marrow was positive, confirming the diagnosis.
