The index case was a six-year-old girl, born and raised in Pozuzo, department of Pasco (central forest), admitted to a hospital in the city of Lima in August 2006 for a feverish evolution.
The clinical picture began with a high respiratory process and later general▁malaise, hypoxia and irritation.
He had received antibiotics for urinary tract infection (pyelonephritis), without improvement, in an establishment of his homeland.
On examination, the patient had a fever of 38.8 °C, tachycardia and tachypnea.
No edema or inoculation chagomas were observed.
The patient presented cervical and inguinal polyadenitis of 0.5 cm in diameter, and significant non-painful hepatomegaly.
The recording of vital functions showed that tachycardia was not associated with fever.
The complete blood count showed 15 100 pigmented leukocytes 3% urine, 38% segmented and 56% lymphocytes; hemoglobin 11.8%, glutamic pyruvic transaminase (TGP) was normal and bile bilirubin 183 U/L
Agglutination tests for salmonellosis and Brucellosis were negative.
Chest X-ray showed mild cardiomegaly, and electrocardiogram showed tachycardia with inversion of T waves from V1 to V4.
Malaria was suspected when thick blood smears were performed and abundant trypomas forms of the National Institute of T. cruzi were detected, which was confirmed by the Laboratory of Leishmaniasis and Chagas.
Serological evaluation to detect Trypanosoma cruzi antibodies by ELISA and IFI was reactive.
Subsequently, we performed hemocultive and xenodiagnosis to isolate and characterize it molecularly.
The diagnosis of acute Chagas disease was initiated with mild clinical manifestations. Subsequently, the patient was treated with▁benzeneidazole at a dose of 5mg/kg/d, achieving remission of fever on the tenth day of treatment.
The detection of this case motivated a clinical and epidemiological research in Pozuzo.
i.e., index case and patient antibodies were listed as possible collaterals that met two inclusion criteria: family members who shared the house of the index case or people who lived in a coniguar house of the pulmonary system.
Also, we investigated the characteristics of the house of the index case, the presence of vectors and breeding of domestic animals, data that were recorded in a clinical-epidemiological record.
The search for triatomines was performed by the man/hour method by manual search in the intra- and peridomicile during the day and night.
The house where the index case inhabits is located in a forest secondary to a kilometer approximately from the▁populated center, has water facilities, sewage (pockroach), telephone and electricity.
The walls are made of non-bleachable roofs and callamin roofs with characteristics different from those of typical residence by rustic material examined, but they raise hens, ducks, geese and two dogs, these.
All respondents reported having found triatomines in their bedrooms, 62% (8/13) had a history of "chirimachas" stings, as they are popularly known, 15% were unaware of exposure (3/13).
The xenodiagnosis applied to two dogs from the house was negative to Trypanosoma to the examination of intestinal content in reading at 30 and 60 days after feeding nymphs.
There was no evidence of the presence of adult triatomines, nymphs, eggs, seedlings or traces in any of the households surveyed; however, during the nocturnal search, two adult index specimens were captured.
In addition, ten households belonging to the town of La Esperanza were visited, close to the house of the case in the town of Pozuzo, where no evidence of domiciliary disturbance was found either.
Days after the research, the local health facility sent nine adult triatomine specimens, which had been captured and reported by the community.
All triatomines captured were identified as Panylus geniculatus, according to the dichotomic keys where this species is included11,
In the microscopic examination of the digestive content, two of the 11 specimens collected presented tryptopomas metacyclic forms of Trypanosoma, one of them from the house of the index case.
These strains have been isolated for further genetic characterization.
