A 45-year-old male with a history of chronic HIV infection stage A2 treated with ABC/3TC and NVP since 2011, with CD4+ 100&/mm3 and CV HIV < 20 copari and without migraine at last control and
In December 2013, the onset of 4 days of evolution was characterized by severe left migraine pain associated with retroocular and peri-peripheral pain and ptosis. There was intense left fundus pain 104 mm without objective signs of optic disc edema.
He did not present mandibular claudication or fever at any time.
Due to changes in the characteristics of the habitual headache, admission for study was decided.
Doppler ultrasound of the temporal artery showed no pathological findings.
Cerebral andâ–orbital MRI is also normal.
Elective examination showed abdominal dislodged stasis. Hypoatase performed alkaline liver injury 267 U/L, GGT metastatic lesion 1 segment total bilirubin 0.3 mg/dl GOT 18 GPT 25 U/L solid ultrasound,
After finding an abdominal CAT scan was requested, which showed a segment 4A, heterogeneous contrast uptake area, poorly defined, about 5 cm maximum diameter with presence of several hypodense images, and there may also be foci of small intestine.
The lesion is not suggestive of metastasis although it cannot be ruled out and could be related to cholangiocarcinoma or even an infectious/ inflammatory etiology.
The result of serum luetic serology was received with RPR 1/256, FTA-acid + Ac.
Total Treponema
negative CRP. headache could be related to a neurosyphilis. Lumbar puncture was performed and treatment with Penicillin G Na+IV was started, obtaining the following results: 3 lymphocytes, proteins 34 mg/dl
Therefore, neurosyphilis was ruled out, initially diagnosed with latent syphilis of unknown duration, changing treatment to penicillin G benzathine 2.4 MU IM weekly for 3 weeks.
After the beginning of penicillin, the patient reported a clear improvement in headache and general condition.
Biopsy of the hepatic lesion was requested.
During the procedure it is noteworthy that the lesion has decreased in size (12mm), so it is rejected to perform the same obtaining only sample by FNA showing mature hepatocytes without atypia.
This reduction in the size of the lesion is accompanied by a decrease in the enzymes of colostasis as well as an improvement during the hospitalization, for which we think that the clinical picture of atopic dermatitis may be all related to tertiary syphilis.
After having completed 3 doses of penicillin G benzathine IM, in May 2014 a control ultrasound was performed, not visualizing any liver injury, and the control analytical no longer shows cholestatic pattern GOT 51 U/L.
The RPR of control is 1/8.
Syphilis, a sexually transmitted disease caused by the spirochete Treponema authenticdum, can mimic a variety of conditions.
