We report the case of a 73-year-old male patient with PA of high-grade bladder carcinoma stage 1 treated with intravesical instillations of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG).
The patient had the last dose 2 weeks before admission.
The patient had fever and chills for 4 days and was empirically treated with ciprofloxacin without improvement.
The patient had a Ta of 38.2 oC, TA 132/78 mmHg, HR68.
baseline spO2 97%.
Physical examination revealed mild positive right renal percussion with no other relevant findings.
Laboratory tests showed mild leukocytosis (13800 leukocytes) with 81% neutrophilia.
He had normocytic mild normochromic anemia, creatinine 1.3 mg/dl, LDH 450U/l, CRP of 10 and other normal biochemical parameters.
Urinary analysis revealed mild leukocyturia with negative nitrites and slight microscopic hematuria.
Urocultive and hemocultive tests were performed, which were negative.
Chest X-ray showed no parenchymal abnormalities.
Empirical treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid was initiated, maintaining fever peaks.
Five days later, blood and urine tests were repeated, maintaining elevated CRP levels, but with leukocytes in normal values.
Microscopic hematuria persisted at the urinary level with disappearance of leukocyturia.
Blood and urine cultures were again negative.
The renal ultrasound shows kidneys with globular parenchyma without evidence of lithiasis, hydronephrosis or space occupying lesions.
To complete these findings, CT scan of the abdomen revealed multiple hypodense areas in the right kidney of dubious origin (infectious, ischemic, neoplasic), so the study of the radiologic
Abdominal-phragmatic MRI (AF 1) shows edema involving the perirenal fat and the right kidney fascia with multiple heterogeneous enhancement areas of the renal parenchyma, with restriction of the kidney.
J. tuberculosis infection. tuberculosis infection. tuberculosis infection. tuberculosis treatment with pipetteacillin/ta culture at a dose of 4.5 g every 8 hours. Urine analysis with ZiehlgNeelsen stain, negative fluid culture
On the 5th day of treatment and in the absence of an analytical clinical response, blood and urine samples were sent to the laboratory of the Ricardo Jorge Institute of Lisbon to perform the in-house PCR technique.
DNA of M.tuberosis bovis by PCR was positive in blood and urine.
Treatment was initiated with isoniazid (300mg day), rifampicin (600mgday), pyracinamide (1200mgday) and streptomycin (1gday).
Fever disappeared on the 5th day and CRP returned to normal after 3 weeks.
One month later, the patient was asymptomatic and had pathological MRI control.
Differential diagnosis Differential diagnosis Differential diagnosis was established with a metastatic neoplasic process secondary to the underlying disease, a renal infarction and an infectious process secondary to treatment.
