We report the case of a 25-year-old woman who came to the emergency room for a 72-hour history of coughing and non-respiratory noise, without fever or other accompanying symptoms.
As a background to highlight, it resides in urban areas and has contact with domestic animals (channel and dogs).
No drug allergies or personal or family history of interest, except active smoking 7 packs/year.
A chest X-ray taken in the emergency department of the hospital where the patient was referred showed a rounded lesion in the right upper lobe and in the presence of respiratory symptoms presented, with suspicion of community-acquired pneumonia, 500 mg of levofloxacin was initiated 24 hours after
Symptoms disappear after 7 days of treatment.
The patient was reviewed in the outpatient▁Pneumology clinic of another center.
A follow-up chest X-ray performed one month after the onset of symptoms showed the persistence of a rounded, well-defined image, about 3 cm in diameter, located in the right upper lobe of the pulmonary nodule.
Differential diagnosis SPL is radiologically defined as a single intraparenchymal, round or oval lung lesion with well-defined borders and a diameter not greater than 3 cm.
It can be the presentation form of both malignant and malignant processes, constituting a diagnostic challenge.
The differential diagnosis of SPN is discussed below: malignant▁neoplasms (40-50%) 1.
Primary lung cancer.
Adenocarcinoma is the most frequent histological subtype, accounting for 30-50% of malignant lesions, followed by squamous cell carcinoma 10-37%.
Tumors are typically endobronchial.
However, 20% present as peripheral SPN with well-defined borders.
2.
Pulmonary metastases.
Although they commonly present as multiple pulmonary nodules, they can also present as SPNs, such as melanoma, sarcoma and carcinomas of the colon, breast, kidney and testicle.
Colour a less than 10% of total SPN.
3.
Others: primary lymphoma extrasystoles
Benign Catheters (50-60%) 1.
Infections.
Infectious granulomas cause approximately 80% of SPNs.
Tuberculosis and fungal infections (histoplasmosis,▁coccidioidomycosis, cryptosis and blastomycosis) may be the origin of these.
Less common infectious causes include abscesses, aspergilloma, and bacterial infections caused by other jirovecii.
2.
Tumors located.
Hamartomas cause 10% of pulmonary nodules.
Other less common causes are fibromas, leiomyomas, hemangiomas, amyloidoma and pneumocytoma.
3.
Vascular.
Among them, arteriovenous malformations, with pulmonary infarction and stroke.
4.
Inmaterias.
The following systemic diseases stand out as a cause of SPN: • Wegener's granulomatosis • Rheumatoid arthritis • Sarcoidosis 5.
Congenital malformations such as bronchogenic cyst
In our case, we report the case of a young patient, who was initially immunocompetent and had no family or personal history of ailment.
In the case of a SPN of tumoral etiology, it could correspond to a primary lung neoplasia of early presentation in a smoking woman, or to a hamartoma, because it is the most frequent tumor.
Among the infectious causes, most are uncommon infections in non-immunosuppressed patients, except for tuberculosis.
Therefore, unless the patient did not have known immunodeficiency so far, it would be an unlikely etiology.
Although it could be the form of presentation of a systemic disease, the absence of other clinical data makes this diagnosis less likely.
Finally, among the less frequent causes, vascular or congenital malformations could be the cause of the radiological lesion.
▁Right ventricular septal defect with no signs of persistent chest X-ray revealed a chest computed tomography (CAT) in which pulmonary consolidation of 5 cm, rounded, with polylobulated margins was observed
These findings were confirmed by fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy, which showed an inflammatory stenosis in the apical segment of the right main bronchus, with no other findings that were biopsied.
Biopsy samples obtained did not show signs of cell proliferation.
Bronchoalveolar lavage and culture in conventional medium and Lowestein were negative.
Samples were not assembled for▁culturing
At that time, the general analysis showed no significant data and serology was negative for hepatitis B, C and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) on two occasions.
Because of the uncertainty of a neoplasic origin of the lesion and the lack of conclusive results, exploratory videothoracoscopy was performed.
▁Right bisegmentectomy and lymphadenectomy were performed.
Pathological anatomy of the surgical specimen showed no evidence of disease.
A histology compatible with pure histiocytic granuloma was observed, revealing the presence of cryptococcus neoformans as the gold standard and PAS techniques.
At this time, the patient is referred to us.
At the first visit to our clinics, the patient is asymptomatic and the general examination was rigorously normal.
The first step was to rule out some type of immunodeficiency when faced with the unexpected finding of pulmonary cryptosis.
We performed a new HIV serology, as well as an autoimmunity study with negative results, and the quantification of complement and immunoglobulins was normal.
In order to rule out idiopathic CD4 T-cell▁lymphopenia, CD4 levels were requested with a normal result (1408).
Another second aspect that we raised was the need to rule out a disseminated form of cryptosis, as well as antifungal treatment.
Cryptococcal antigen was negative, thoracic and abdominal CT did not show relevant data and skull MRI was normal.
Given the absence of neurological symptoms and the normality of the complementary tests, a lumbar puncture was not performed to rule out meningitis cryptosis.
On the other hand, in the absence of systemic infection data (analytical study, CT scan of the chest and abdomen and MRI of the skull without findings) in an immunocompetent patient, the infection was considered resolved after antifungal treatment.
Final diagnosis▁Pneumonia acclaimed by cryptococcus neoformans manifested as a solitary pulmonary nodule in immunocompetent patient.
