A 71-year-old woman was the only personal history of pyohydronephrosis in 1985 requiring external drainage.
She came to the emergency department with a 2-month history of asthenia, weight loss of 10 kg in 6 months and night sweats.
On physical examination, the patient was in regular general condition, sweating, tachypnea 120 bpm, normal tension, SpO2, and temperature 37.8oC, with no pain on percussion in the right renal fossa.
In the emergency department she presented leukocytosis with neutrophilia, normocytic normochromic anemia (Hb 10.2 mg/dl) and elevated acute phase reactants.
Urine compatible with infection (severe leukocyturia with bacteriuria).
A chest X-ray showed mediastinal widening with tracheal displacement to the left.
Hemocultive and urocultive samples were extracted, starting empirical antibiotic therapy with Amoxicillin-clavulanate, admitted to Internal Medicine due to urinary tract infection and constitutional syndrome under study, possible lymphoma with symptoms B.
In the plant, clinical and analytical improvement of infectious data with isolation of Proteus mirabillis in urocultive sensitive to ciprofloxacin.
Clinical ultrasound shows a mass that does not allow identification of the right renal silhouette.
A CT scan revealed an objectified pyeloma, calcified endothoracic goiter, and a complete destructuring and replacement of the right kidney by a cluster of confluent cystic lesions with a polygranulomatour morphology was also performed 11 cm.
Syncope x granulomatous pyelonephritis is a rare variant of chronic pyelonephritis that is usually due to obstruction by infected lithiasis. The most common microorganisms are E. coli and Proteus mirabilis.
It usually occurs in middle-aged women with a history of recurrent urinary infection; symptoms include fever, asthenia, anorexia and weight loss.
Analytically, anemia and elevated ESR appear, urine with infection data and urine culture positive for enterobacteria.
The imaging test of choice is CT and the definitive diagnosis is renal pathology groups distinguishing between▁xanthomatous cells and cells with a pseudoglandular pattern, which are degenerated renal▁tubules, it is important to clarify the carcinoma.
The treatment of choice is nephrectomy along with pre- and post-surgical antibiotic therapy.
