Anamn Anamn A 65-year-old male was admitted to the Neurology Service for the study of acute arm anemia with a mild implant package. A personal history of coronary artery disease Killi high blood pressure, a diagonal myocardial infarction profile 100 years ago.
Retired, he worked in construction, has a good baseline situation and is independent for basic activities of daily living.
As usual medication, she takes▁acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg/24 h, clopidogrel 75 mg/24 h, enalapril 2.5 mg h, atorvastatin mg/24 h, attenuated 50 mg/12 h transdermal zolin 20/12 h, at night patch,
The patient reported having for 7 months a sensation of dysesthetic burning sensation in the feet (predominantly on the internal edge of the plantar zones, first finger and first interdigital space, which worsens with constant night and night, as well as
He also complains of burning pain in the left hemithorax that radiates to the left shoulder, fluctuating throughout the day, without associated vegetative courtship, and does not remember ischemic heart disease associated with previous pain.
The onset of symptoms was acute (not sudden), with no significant clinical progression.
It denies a temporal relationship with changes in medication, toxic intake, infectious processes or any other event.
Twenty days before admission, she was treated with pregabalin, tramadol and amitriptyline in ascending order, with no apparent initial response.
The patient has had an mood alteration for 6 months, with marked irritation.
Physical training Temperature 36 oC.
Thigh blood pressure 147/92 mmHg.
Heart rate was 94 bpm.
Oxygen saturation was 96% at baseline.
Skin-mucosal▁rigidity
This remains without significant findings.
Neurological alteration: the presence of tactoalgesic hypoesthesia stands out in both feet up to the level of the lateral leg, predominantly at the level of the internal plantar edge, with decreased sensation of the left inframaleolar foot and vibratory.
Muscle stretching reflexes are preserved in the lower limbs (++/+++) and are slightly decreased in the upper limbs (+/++++), if the reflexes are present.
Rest of neurological examination (cortical functions, cranial nerves, motor system, rest of exploration, exploration of the cerebellum, gait, meningeal signs) without alterations.
▁Complementary tests • General biochemistry: unchanged, including creatinine 0.69 mg/dl, calcium 9.1 mg/dl, C-reactive protein (CRP) < 0.3 mg/dl.
Blood count: hemoglobin 10.9 g/dl, mean corpuscular volume 90.7, mean corpuscular hemoglobin 28.7 pg, erythrocyte sedimentation rate 80 mm/h, rest without alterations.
Ferric profile: ferritin 12 ng/ml, iron 82 μg/dl, transferrin 340 mg/dl, total iron binding capacity 479 μg/dl, transferrin saturation 17.1%.
Levels of vitamin B 12 and folic acid, as well as coagulation, systematic urine and autoimmune study were normal.
• Electrophoretic study: presence of a monoclonal band in beta fraction (11%) and another monoclonal band in gamma fraction (2%).
• Immunoglobulin levels (Ig): elevated IgA levels (1,400 mg/dl; normal parameters between 70 and 400 mg/dl).
IgG and IgM levels were within normal limits.
• Serum immunisation.
IgA: 2 monoclonal bands of different intensity; kappa: 2 monoclonal bands of different intensity.
IgM, IgG and lambda were normal.
• Urine immunofixation: unchanged.
• Bone marrow cytology: bone marrow aspirate infiltrated by 13% of plasma cells a
• Bone marrow biopsy: the structure is recognizable, but is distorted by an infiltrate of plasma cells with mild atypia, available in nests, in addition to the perivascular and adjacent form.
Immunohistochemistry shows kappa/lambda ratio > 20: 1.
Conclusion: bone marrow with image suggestive of multiple myeloma.
• Cell immunophenotype: plasma cell population 3% with immunophenotype and normal and pathological plasma ratio.
• Electromyography (EMG): mild axonal polyneuropathy in the lower limbs.
• Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 90 bpm; image compatible with an old ante-osteal infarction.
• Serology: negative IgG Borrelia.
HBV,Ag-HBs negative; IgG anti-HBc positive 4.09; anti-HBe negative; anti-HBs positive 77.1.
HCV: negative antibodies.
HIV (1.2): antibody and negative antigen.
Rose Bengal was negative.
Treponema, IgG negative.
• Tumor markers: discrete elevation of beta-2-microglobulin (2.8 mg/l; normal parameters between 0.8 and 2.2 mg/l).
Resto (alpha-fetoprotein, antigen pro-specific, gastrin, CEA, CA 15.3, CA 125, CA 19.9, CA 72.4, Cyfra 21.1, neurospecific enolase, calcitonin)
• Chest X-ray (posteroanterior and lateral): no significant changes.
• Toco-abdominal computed tomography (CT): small left axillary lymph nodes, mediastinal lymph nodes, supra-aortic trunks, pretracheal lymph nodes, pre-aortic morphology and precarine abnormalities are observed.
No relevant change.
• Radiological bone series: no lytic lesions or other relevant changes are seen.
Diagnosis • Multiple quiescent myeloma.
• Axonal polyneuropathy of the lower limbs in relation to multiple myeloma.
Treatment and evolution For symptomatic treatment of paresthesia, pregabalin 150 mg/12 h, amitriptyline 25 mg/24 h and ibuprofen 600 mg on demand were adjusted up to a significant improvement every 8 hours.
As for multiple myeloma, it was decided, in consensus with the Hematology Department of the hospital, not to start etiologic treatment and observe the evolution, in addition to requesting abdominal fat biopsy to rule out amyloidosis associated with myeloma.
