A 53-year-old Spanish male patient, smoker and parenteral drug user, with HIV and HCV coinfection known for 20 years.
He was being treated with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 200 mg, emtricitabine 200 mg and efavirenz 600 mg coformulated once daily, although with poor adherence to it and erratic follow-up in consultations.
He had been admitted three months earlier for a relapse of pulmonary tuberculosis due to treatment abandonment, confirmed by the isolation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a sample of bronchoalveolar lavage sensitive to first-line antituberculous drugs.
At that time, she had a CD4 lymphocyte count of 37 cells/mm3 and an HIV viral load (CV) greater than 100,000 copies/ml.
Antituberculosis treatment was initiated with isoniazid 5 mg/kg, rifampicin 10 mg/kg, pyrazinamide 25 mg/kg, and proxylazol three days for treatment of fungal infections 160/800 mg/kg, with cotrioxmide
The same pattern of mental disorders that had abandoned in the previous month was resumed, as the existence of resistance had not been demonstrated and there was no interaction with prior anti-tuberculosis treatment.
After this admission, the patient reported complete adherence to both therapies, corroborated by his family.
In the last review (three weeks after discharge), the patient had 126 CD4/mm3 and HIV VL of 1,130 copies/ml.
The patient was readmitted for fever, nausea and vomiting.
The patient also reported involuntary urine output from the rectum for two months.
She identified her with no difficulty due to her color as secondary to treatment with rifampicin.
Upon admission, the patient had a body temperature of 37.7oC and physical examination showed mainly thinness and prostration.
Pulmonary auscultation revealed biphasic crackles and abdominal examination was normal.
Laboratory tests revealed a discrete leukocytosis of 12,000 cells/μl with 82% neutrophils, hemoglobin of 12.3 g/dl, 211,000 platelets/μl, creatinine 1.3 mg/dl, 118 C-reactive protein dL, and transfer protein of 8.4.
A chest X-ray showed emphysema with thickening of both pulmonary hilium and right hilioapical fibrous tracts, together with a cavitated right upper lobe pseudonodular image.
An ultrasound of the urinary tract was requested and revealed no abnormalities.
small vesicles, suspected enterovesic fistula (EFV) and no other source of fever, computed tomography (CT) showed multiple left abdomen protraction with multiple urinary tract vesicles, inflammation and retraction.
A cystoscopy was performed which showed the existence of a mamelon plaque in the retrotrigone, suggestive of FEV, although the cystography did not show the presence of fistulous tracts.
A seizure was requested in which no gross mucosa or apparent drainage was found, although it was reported that the presence of a fistula could not be ruled out with certainty.
Puncture of prostatic abscesses for microbiological study was unsuccessful.
The elemental analysis of urine, sediment and uroculture (conventional and in mycobacterial medium), as well as hemocultive and coprocultive, were negative.
A urinary catheterization was performed, yielding rectal urine output.
Due to the high suspicion of prostitute abscesses and FEV having a tuberculous etiology, it was decided to maintain the bladder catheter until the consultation was reviewed.
One month later, the patient was readmitted for study due to gait instability and left hemiparesis.
Contrast-enhanced brain CT demonstrated the existence of two space-occupying lesions, a left frontoparietal 29 x 25 x 18 mm, irregular morphology, hyperdense periphery and hypodense proximal center 12 mm; and another moderate periventricular edema.
The study was completed with a brain magnetic resonance imaging that showed the necrotic appearance of the most cranial lesion.
Biopsy of the lesion occupying more peripheral space was performed, and systemic corticosteroids and empirical treatment against Toxoplasma gondii were prescribed, maintaining anti-tuberculous treatment.
Differential diagnosis In summary, this is a patient with HIV infection who is immunosuppressed and has a recent diagnosis of tuberculosis, for whom pulmonary tuberculosis treatment and anti-tuberculosis treatment were initiated jointly.
Urine removal from the rectum suggested the existence of an FEV supported by imaging test and cystoscopy data.
In the differential diagnosis of a FEV, in the colovesical form, we must consider the following etiologies:▁neoplasms: carcinoma causes 20% of the total, but CT and FEV exclude this diagnosis.
Other pelvic▁neoplasms such as prostate cancer or invasive urothelial cancer were also excluded after the tests performed.
Inflammatory diseases: rectal Crohn's disease causes 10% of the FEV.
The absence of lesions in the small intestine at CT and the normalcy of the hypersensitivity caused this etiology to be unlikely.
Infections: complicated diverticulum is the most common cause of FEV (70-90%).
It presents as a septic picture with abdominal pain and defense, absent in our patient.
CT usually shows a peripherical or pelvic abscess, absent in our case.
The actinomycetes with abdominal history of, when it is an infection produced by a commensal oral and intestinal bacteria of slow growth, occurs in people with a surgical intervention, neoplasia or visceral perforation in the previous months and,
Other rarer etiologies of FEV include: typhoid fever, very rare in our country, which usually courses with negative hemocultives; amebiasis, extraordinary, in patients with a history of stay in endemic areas; and syphilis.
Finally, the possibility of a tuberculous etiology, despite antistatic treatment with urine, could not be ruled out, since the patient could present from the beginning a disseminated form, initially silent, with intestinal involvement evidenced and prostatic emission.
In immunocompetent patients, 60-80% of prostatic abscesses are caused by gram-negative bacilli, with Escherichia coli as the predominant organism, and Staphylococcus aureus as another possible agent in the presence of bacteremia.
However, in patients with severely immunosuppressed HIV infection, other microorganisms should be considered, mainly mycobacteria (Mycobacterium infection, mainly Mycobacterium complex and M. tuberculosis neoformans)2.
Finally, the appearance of lesions occupying the brain space forces us to include other opportunistic infections in the differential diagnosis.
In our patient, these lesions had a frontal-parietal location in contact with the corpus callosum, with contrast uptake and mass effect that caused secondary clinical intracranial hypertension.
The differential diagnosis of brain space occupying lesions in a severely immunosuppressed patient would include cerebral toxoplasmosis.
It usually presents with headache, fever and changes in the level of consciousness that may be associated with focal neurological symptoms or even seizures.
The lesions are characterized by multiple lesions, located mainly at the frontotemporal level and ring contrast uptake.
Primary lymphoma of the central nervous system.
It manifests as multiple or single lesions generally periventricular or periventricular or periepidermal, which can be larger than 4 cm, which is less frequent in toxoplasmosis.
Tuberculosis.
They are granulomatous clusters that can be single or multiple, and in late stages are encapsulated with peripheral enhancement.
The most common clinical presentation is intracranial hypertension.
Causes of brain abscesses in this context, such as Aspergillus spp., Non-species, Rhococcus spp., Lipodosis spp., C. neoformans and Coccidioides immitis are much less common.
We would discard other opportunistic pathologies that do not present with a mass effect, including progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, caused by the JC virus, which usually causes multifocal areas of focal motor demyelination symptoms and progressive neuroencephalopathy.
Taking all this into account, the disease that could most likely explain the patient's findings would be disseminated tuberculosis.
On the other hand, the presence of prostatic abscesses, disseminated FEV, and lesions occupying the brain space in the period of 2-3 months after resumption of treatment severe in a patient with HIV-associated infection SIRI obligates.
After stable corticoid therapy and maintenance of anti-restorative therapy, hemiparesis resolved within 72 hours, with mild residual gait instability.
Brain biopsy samples showed fibronecrotic tissue with presence of inflammatory infiltrate and bacilli resistant (BAAR), specifically 1-10 BAAR per field, and the Mbacteria chain reaction for tuberculosis polymerase.
One month later, abdominal CT scans were performed, showing abscesses prosecutive, although a minimal FEV was still observed.
The urinary catheter was removed without clinical recurrence.
Corticosteroid treatment was continued for 4 weeks and one year of treatment for tuberculosis was completed, with complete recovery.
Final diagnosis Disseminated infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (pulmonary, cerebral, genitourinary and colonic, with formation of enterovesical fistula).
▁Reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.
