We report the case of a 44-year-old patient with a history of psoriatic arthritis who was treated with prednisone 5mg daily, oral methotrexate 25mg a week, and progressive worsening of the feverish rash with non-diprandial
Fever up to 38.5oC, preceded by tiritone, was observed in the emergency room.
On physical examination, the patient presented general▁malaise, mucocutaneous jaundice, blushing abdomen, right hypochondrium pain, dubiously positive murphy, and some erythematous scaly abdomen lesions.
Analytically, at admission, he had Hb of 11.3g/dl, 97000 platelets/mm3, no alteration in the white blood cell series; mildly abnormal coagulation bilirubin (INR 1.2, TP 14.7mg/dl), mild alkaline phosphatase
Abdominal ultrasound showed only a 16cm enlarged spleen.
Abdominal CT showed inflammation of the fat adjacent to the pancreatoduodenal groove, with no other findings or lymphadenopathy.
Initially, a high-spectrum treatment was administered, with suspicion of intra-abdominal infection, with piperazilin/tazodone, tape removal, etc.
Progressive worsening was found, with transaminase and bilirubin levels (up to 5mg/dl), as well as hemoglobin levels (up to 8.5g/dl), accompanied by leukopenia leukocytes (87000) and platelet elevation (mm).
Blood and urine cultures were negative, as well as multiple viral serology.
Finally, after obtaining a very positive serology for Leishmania, a bone marrow study was requested for the definitive diagnosis. Biopsy did not find Leishmania▁parasites positive, but the polymerase chain reaction was negative for Leishmania.
Treatment with Amphotericin B (200mg IV) was initiated, but after two doses, this treatment should be discontinued due to episodes of pain in the pelvic and lumbar girdle, psychomotor agitation and involuntary movements.
She subsequently started treatment with intramuscular antiarrhythmic drugs (Glucantime) 3.75mg for 21 days, with rapid improvement of symptoms.
One month after treatment, a negative PCR for leishmania was observed.
