Anamnesis An 81-year-old woman who came to the emergency department with disseminated skin lesions of 2 weeks duration.
These lesions had appeared progressively and evolved to ulceration and suppuration.
She reported associated local pain as the only symptom; she did not present any general state of health problems; she had not presented fever or▁frank titres, nor any symptoms at other levels.
His medical history included: allergy to clavulanic acid, hypothyroidism under treatment with levothyroxine, dyslipidemia under treatment with statin, high blood pressure under treatment with risepamide acid and osteoporosis treated with indinavir.
In the recent clinical history, the minimal conservative fracture was noted. The patient had been treated conservatively for 3 months in a medium-stay nodular area for rehabilitation treatment. The patient had been discharged home with various stages of bladder cancer and other purulent lesions.
In some of the lesions, several drainage orifices could be observed.
In addition, pustules centered on hair follicles were observed in the hairy hair area.
▁Complementary lesions were cultured and biopsy was performed in the eye, of which one part was sent for microbiological study, and another for pathological study.
In both direct swabs and biopsy culture, Staphylococcus aureus resistant (SARM) grew.
Skin biopsy showed dense infiltrates of polymorphonuclear leukocytes with microabcessification and some foci of necrosis.
There were no granulomas or signs of vasculitis.
During hospitalization, the patient suffered a feverish peak, so blood cultures were taken that were negative.
With the microbiological isolation, and the history of a febrile episode, it was decided to rule out other levels of Staphylococcus aureus: echocardiogram, chest X-ray and examination of the eye fundus by septic metastasis; all without findings of sepsis.
Diagnosis Multiple abscesses due to MRSA.
Treatment The patient was admitted with empirical antibiotic treatment with piperacillin-ta negative as well as 4 g/500 mg every 8 hours associated with linezolid 600 mg every 12 hours, with the intention of covering multiresistant gram-positive germs
The history of recent long-term institutionalization was the reason for choosing this combination.
Daily cures were performed with ointment fusidic acid, silicone dressing and non-compressive bandage.
Once MRSA isolation was confirmed, it was decided to remove peracillin-tazodone and maintain linezolid alone, which was maintained for up to two weeks.
The lesions resolved completely.
During admission, the patient was referred for preventive medicine and underwent specific decolonizing treatment.
