Personal history A 44-year-old man, born in Bolivia, a professional accountant in Spain, has been living in Spain for three years.
Among his personal history, he reported Guillain syndrome, malaria and pulmonary tuberculosis that was incorrectly treated.
In 2005, he required hospitalization in another region due to septic shock secondary to infection caused by culprit and septic shock, with disseminated histoplasmosis after isolating in bronchoaspirate, blood.
Sexually transmitted HIV infection was detected with an initial CD4+ count of 139 cells/μL and high viral load.
He received treatment with tenofovir B continuing secondary prophylaxis with itraconazole 200 mg/day, trimethoprim + tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 400 mg (prophylaxis + itraconazole + primary virological response with efavirenz 200 mg/day), good levels were initiated.
The patient presented to the emergency department complaining of headaches, vomiting, gait disturbance and difficulty in speaking for a week.
Physical examination revealed▁rigidity of the neck, fever of 38oC, and ataxia during gait.
The rest of the examination was anodyne.
Accompanying cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained was a clear liquid at normal pressure with 110 cells predominantly▁lymphocytic (90%), proteins 384 mg/dL, glycorrhachia 24 mg/dL and ADA 18 U/L.
Cultures, sputum smear microscopy, CSF cultures and Chinese ink were negative.
Blood tests did not show any results.
Microbiological sputum and blood cultures were negative.
Chest X-ray showed fibrous tracts in the right upper lobe and residual granulomas.
Cranial CT scan showed signs of cortico-subcortical deficiency.
The patient was diagnosed with tuberculous meningoencephalitis and treated with four drugs, with a slight initial improvement in both clinical and CSF parameters.
Two months later she was readmitted for a similar clinic and a new lumbar puncture was performed with the following characteristics: glycorrhachia 35 mg/dL, protein 310 mg/dL, 100 cells with▁lymphocytic predominance (90%), ADA 14 U
Culture, sputum smear, Chinese ink and culture negative.
Again, CT and contrast-enhanced cranial MRI were anodyne.
The tuberculous treatment with four drugs was maintained when multiresistant tuberculosis was suspected, waiting for Lowenstein culture and antibiogram.
Clinically, the patient progressively deteriorated with uncontrollable vomiting that only resolved with dexamethasone, diplopia, speech difficulties, sphincter relaxation, disorientation and impossibility to walk.
Due to the severity of the condition, the lack of response to treatment and the history of sepsis, it was decided to start empirical treatment with amphotericin B with a rapid clinical response, maintaining for four weeks and continuing secondary prophylaxis with itraconazole.
Cultures, smears, Lowenstein, PCR of mycobacteria, serology of loos and staining with Chinese ink were negative.
CSF serology for Brucella, Borrelia,▁Cytomegalovirus, Epstein herpes virus negative and herpes simplex virus 1, 2 and 6, 7 and 8, Toxoplasma gondii JC was negative.
In serum, the serology against Taenia solium was negative as was the PCR determination for Histoplasma capsulatum, although serology was positive for IgG.
Also, serology against Blastomyces, Coccidioides and Paradiodes yielded negative results.
Four months after the episode, the patient was readmitted with the same symptoms.
The characteristics of CSF were similar to those of previous admissions.
It was decided to establish prolonged treatment for four months with liposomal amphotericin B and continue secondary prophylaxis with weekly liposomal amphotericin B.
The evolution has been favorable without subsequent relapses and with normalization of cytobiochemical parameters in CSF.
Clinical judgement Neurohistoplasmosis.
