The patient and her surroundings Alba Vargas first consulted our mental health team at the age of 28.
She had had had sporadic previous contacts with mental health professionals at 15 and 17 years of age due to behaviours for self-medication.
It was the third of seven brothers.
She had lived for years unrelated to her family, alone or in a partner, although in the year prior to the first consultation she returned to her family home.
He had a fixed job, and was in charge of a store of furniture.
No relevant medical history.
Premorbid personality with introversion scratches, the patient says: "it's hard to open up to people."
The anamnesis includes persistent traumatic life events during childhood and adolescence, as well as eating restriction behaviors without the diagnosis of anorexia nervosa.
The father probably depended on never treated alcohol.
Consumption of toxic substances has been a consumer of hachís since adolescence.
In the ten years prior to the first consultation, and during the six years of psychiatric follow-up, he maintained daily consumption of hachís, usually with a minimum of three daily servings.
Consumption was preferably at the end of the day, seeking anxiolytic and sleep-disordered effect.
After motivational treatment, the patient remained with a syndromic treatment for 15 months.
The four psychotic episodes described below were preceded by two to four weeks of intense consumption of hachís (with fifteen pigs a day) that the patient smoked alone in her room.
He did not consume other toxic substances except alcohol occasionally and coffee and tobacco in moderate amounts.
Clinical manifestations and treatment - 28 years old: Primer psychotic episode, dementia remission, followed by post-psychotic depression and total remission.
At the time of the first consultation, he said that for more than six months "TV has talked about me".
At this time verbal manifestations were observed for several hours a day, self-harming perception and mild embodiment.
Without formal thought disorders, without awareness of disease, he was euthymic and with moderate reactive anxiety to psychotic phenomena.
Treatment with risperidone (6 mg/day) was started, after which the positive symptoms quickly disappeared.
In the following six months, a slight extrapyramidalism appears, increases 8 kg of weight and depressed mood appears.
The dose of risperidone was reduced to 3 mg/day and treatment with citalopram (20 mg/day) was initiated, which the patient abandoned after two months.
Nine months after the first consultation, the patient is asymptomatic, without positive symptoms, negative or negative.
She has amenorrhea of 7 months.
- 30 years: Second psychotic episode, delusional disorder, with total remission.
Two and a half years after the first episode, the patient remains asymptomatic and works normally and is maintained on 2 mg/day of risperidone.
She has been doing psychotherapy for six months seeking a better coping of interpersonal conflicts and keeps psychological consultations on demand.
He has a new acute episode with intense psychotic and visual manifestations.
According to the family, she has practically two weeks without leaving her room, where she smokes hatchets all day long.
This second psychotic episode within one week after increasing risperidone dose to 6 mg/day with loracepam combination (5 mg/day).
Then, the patient is insistently recommended to abandon cannabis use.
- 31 years: Third psychotic episode, disorganised, with total remission.
She remains asymptomatic again for ten months, although she has requested an excess of work.
She has a third acute psychotic episode with significant disorganization of language and behavior.
It is confirmed that he had abandoned treatment and had increased consumption of hatchets.
The patient was admitted and the symptoms subsided completely in a few days.
- 32 years: transient cessation.
Four and a half years after the first acute psychotic episode, cannabis cessation begins in outpatient therapeutic groups.
It is completely asymptomatic, being treated with long-term risperidone injection (50 mg every 15 days).
Go back to work.
The patient remains totally aware of cannabis use for 15 months.
- 34 years: Loss of consumption
The family reports that the patient has smoked hatchets again.
Feeling a stage of sentimental problems
The patient confirms that two or three dogs have returned to smoking at night "to sleep well and be sick after work" because she has problems with her current partner.
His language is slightly slowed and he has slight hypomimia.
However, she remains free of psychotic symptoms for 14 months.
Keep treatment with long-term risperidone injection (50 mg every 15 days) correctly.
- 35 years: Fourth psychotic episode and suicide.
A moderate tendency to paranoid thinking reappears, with slight disintegration of thought.
Mimicry bizarre expressivity (opens eyes a lot and raises eyebrows during verbal expression).
The patient confirms that she has consumed hatchets again intensely.
Depot treatment is given.
Two weeks later, the patient improved significantly and was euthymic.
One week later, she commits suicide by hanging in a context that suggests planning for hours and probable confusing-onychoric symptoms prior to suicide.
Diagnosis and differential diagnosis.
▁Throughout the evolution, repeated analytical studies were performed, which were normal, with normal EEG.
Cannabis-positive urine toxic determination on several occasions, and negative urine to other substances.
At 31 years of age, while the patient was asymptomatic, a neuropsychological study was conducted, which is summarized in Table 1.
Due to the close temporal relationship between increased consumption of hachís and the onset of psychotic episodes, along with the rapid and total remission of symptoms after treatment, the DSM-IV-TR diagnosis of psychotic disorder with cannabis withdrawal (F52) was performed.
The episode with transient depressive symptoms that appeared after the first psychotic episode made us suspect the evolution to a schizoaffective disorder, which was not confirmed in the following years.
