40 year old patient admitted to our hospital after one month of treatment with intravenous and oral corticosteroids and oral ciprofloxacin for a process that began as bilateral papillitis and bilateral panuveitis.
Our clinical history shows that the patient is homosexual with risky practices, has a dubious allergy to penicillin and tetraticitis and four months before the onset of ocular symptoms presented an acute palmoplantar exanthema, along with symptoms
Visual acuity was 0.05 in the right eye (OD, amblyopic eye) and count fingers at 20 cm in the left eye.
He had a relative afferent pupillary defect in the right eye.
In the biomycosis precipitates it was▁appreciated cellularity moderate and retrokeratinized in RE, in OI intense cellularity, hypopion 1 mm and posterior synechiae.
Funduscopic examination of both eyes revealed focal arthritis, papillitis and chorioretinitis plaques.
Physical examination revealed bilateral, mobile, non-painful cervical lymphadenopathy.
The analytical study yielded the following values: CD4 522 cells/μl, viral load 35,000 copies/ml, positive RPR 1/64 and positive TPHA and IgG (ELISA).
The patient was diagnosed with HIV+ in stage A1 and possible secondary visual impairment with ocular involvement. Lumbar puncture was performed with a cellular count of 5 cells/μl, total protein 234 mg/dl (glucose 80 mg/dl).
With these results, intravenous bencilpenicillin was administered at doses of 4 million units every 4 hours starting at low doses and slow infusion in the day hospital of the Allergy Unit.
On the second day of administration the patient developed arthralgia and self-limiting rash, which was interpreted as Jarisch-Herxheimer's reaction.
On the ninth day, a rash suggestive of drug eruption that stopped treatment reappeared.
It was decided to continue with oral route possible for two weeks given the allergic history of the patient.
The evolution was favorable in 2-3 weeks, the visual acuity is 1/3 in OD and 1 in OI with resolution of cutaneous lesions and ocular inflammation only remaining hypopigmented plaques in areas of pigmentation.
