Anamnesis A 46-year-old woman, with no toxic habits, with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus on metformin and basal cell carcinoma treated surgically on multiple occasions.
The patient was admitted to the emergency room with generalized pruritic skin lesions of one week duration.
Oral corticosteroids and oral antibiotics were prescribed without improvement, so she was referred to the Department of Pathology.
Physical examination revealed erythematous▁papule-shaped rash, some with central vesicle, and blisters with erythematous base on trunk and extremities.
Several erythematous-costal lesions with linear configuration stood out, as well as others in clusters arranged in the right scapular zone, right arm and forearm, and in the 5th finger of the same hand having blister content.
▁Linearly central crust▁papules on the abdomen, erythematous plaques on the knees and blisters on the back of both feet.
There was no evidence of mucosal involvement.
Physical examination was normal and the patient was in good general condition.
▁Complementary pituitary lesions were ruled out due to the presence of bullous blisters and the intensity of pruritus was determined by a bullous pemphigoid, and given the linear distribution of lesions in the right arm
A general blood test, a skin biopsy for histopathological study, direct immunofluorescence (DIF), indirect immunofluorescence of the ampullary fluid (IFI) and a Tzank test were performed.
• Blood analysis: Blood analysis did not show leukocytosis, showed a slight increase in acute phase reactants (CRP: 2.56 mg/dL, ESR: 38 mm/h), normal liver profile.
Mild seizure 1.0x109/L [N< 0.5] and increased total serum IgE 519.00UI/L [N< 100.00] were noteworthy.
Anti-BP180 IgG antibodies were normal 2.00 U/mL [N < 20.00].
• Skin biopsy: A punch-type skin biopsy of one of the knee lesions was performed.
The epidermis was preserved and a perivascular inflammatory infiltrate composed of lymphocytes and▁eosinophils in the superficial and middle dermis.
• DFA: Presence of C3 deposits and fibrinogen in the wall of small vessels of the superficial dermis.
• IFI: The presence of IgA or IgG type antibodies against the basement membrane was not detected.
• Tzank Test: In the Tzank test, a hemorrhagic extended, with inflammatory component, few scaly cells without cytopathic alterations of viral infection could be observed.
Diagnosis The analytical results, skin biopsy and cytology ruled out a bullous pemphigoid and a herpetic infection.
▁Linear distribution of some lesions led to suspicion of a possible stinging reaction.
Two months later, the patient found hundreds of bed chinches in her mattress, so she was diagnosed with dermatosis due to bed-skinned stings.
Treatment Up to diagnosis she was treated with oral corticosteroids in descending order, topical corticosteroids and antihistamines.
The lesions disappeared completely.
