Location of consultation Carla Santamaria Montero is a 35-year-old woman who came to the Primary Care Clinic in February 2006 referring to cannabis use since she was 15 years old.
Personal history No interest.
A family history of Padre 68 years old, alive and healthy; mother of 60 years without medical or psychiatric history of interest.
She has a 33-year-old sister she defines as a healthy person.
Separated for six years legally and with an 11-year-old son with the crime associated with his current partner who consumes cocaine and insulin-dependent diabetes.
She had a brief history of specialized addictions and a first contact with marijuana in Brazil, where she lived, sporadically at 10 years of age, and at 15-16 years of age, she began to smoke cannabis regularly until she was admitted.
In the last seven months, consumption has increased to 25 "pores" daily.
You have never consumed opiates, cocaine, or other abuse substances, except alcohol.
He comments that five years ago he tried cocaine sporadically – one to two times every two months – in the form of "nevadicants", and he knows how to quantify amounts of alcohol, but he does not always know how to quantify.
These consumptions are mediated by their current partner cocaine user with clinical criteria of dependence, but she argues that their use does not please them when they are under their "nerve" effects.
Decides to ask your primary care doctor for help after your partner's admission to the ICU of your referral hospital for a "sugar increase" that thinks is linked to cocaine use; so you want to stop cannabis.
Physical examination No findings of interest.
a Being a psychopathological partner Conscious about the activity called feel tired, with insomnia of her child with a new home, but with difficulty waking up in the morning, anhedonia and intense recollection
Her baseline situation is sadness without clearly specifying the reason.
No alterations of the course or content of thought are observed at the present time or during consumption, not appreciating self-heteroaggressive behaviors, has awareness of illness and during the interview is shown to be harmful for cannabis 15 days.
His relations with his parents are very important to abandon it the family business that was disastrous, with the former husband almost dismissed due to his bad cocaine consumption in another autonomous community and with his current partner these relations are bad
Nor are the relationships with their children good, with whom they do not "understand" despite their young age (11 years) expressing this on several occasions, wanting to go to live with their father.
The most pleasurable activity is reading, there is no relationship with friends, thinking that it changed place of residence a year and a half ago and "I haven't known anyone yet".
There were no legal incidents.
Diagnostic Judgment EJE I Cannabis criteria.
Criteria for cocaine abuse.
Amotivated versus Depressive Syndrome.
EJE II No evident alterations were observed.
EJE III and hypercholesterolemia.
EJE IV Partially destructured social network without family support.
Treatment Pharmacological treatment was initiated with oral contraceptive up to 15mgr/ day in descending order and up to 20mgr of escitalopram in ascending order.
After 10 days of treatment, the patient complained of not▁tolerating the intense sedation she felt, and escitalopram was replaced with fluoxetine at a dose of 20 mgr/day, with no complaints.
