CLÍNICA-ANTECÆs CHÍNICA-ANTECED PAPSE 48 hours in a 65-year-old woman, with no known toxic habits or drug allergies, who consulted for fever, dyspnea and hemoptysis.
His medical history included hypertension that controlled with diet and a normal functioning multinodular goiter with endocervical extension, diagnosed two years earlier, so a total thyroidectomy had been indicated.
She came to the emergency department due to fever, dyspnea and hemoptysis of 24 hours onset, two days after being discharged from our center after the total thyroidectomy was scheduled.
During hospitalization, the patient developed superficial phlebitis in the left forearm, in relation to a peripheral venous catheter, which was treated by applying Burow water.
Since no fever was present, the catheter tip was not cultured.
OBJETIVE EXPLORATION Upon arrival to the ED, the patient was hypotensive (TA 75/40 mmHg), FC 72 beats per minute, tachypnea (30 breaths per minute) and feverish saturation (T
On auscultation, the presence of bilateral roncus but no cardiac murmurs were observed, and there was no evidence of heart failure semiology.
The patient had a left forearm lithiasis.
The thyroidectomy incision was good.
COMMENTS ONLY Chest X-ray: pulmonary infiltrates in the right lower and left upper lobe.
Blood analysis: hemoglobin 10.7 g/dl, 15,280 leukocytes/mm3 (68% segmented, 24% lymphocytes 5%), time 60%, ng/dl calcium/dl, creatinine 7037, 2.3 mg/ml).
Arterial gas was not implanted.
Blood cultures were performed.
DIFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS IN U.S. physicians considered that this was a nosocomial pneumonia and opted for antibiotic coverage with levofloxacin 500 mg IV and cefuroxime.
Neither arthritis nor a history of phlebitis caused the addition of an antibiotic with activity against S. aureus.
EVOLUTION 3.5 hours after arrival, there was a worsening of the respiratory work, so the patient underwent orotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation.
Since our center does not have an intensive care unit (ICU), there was any superior assertion to another center where the study was completed by performing the following complementary examinations: chest CT: condensed bilobe cavitation in the left lobe.
Fibrobronchoscopy: remnants of blood in the trachea and in declining territories of the right bronchial tree.
Erythematous left bronchial tree mucous.
Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: absence of valve vegetations.
Echo Doppler left upper limb: thrombosis of the superficial veins basilica and cefá.
At 3 days, the presence of resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) was identified in both the haemoactive and bronchoalveolar lavage cultures, and the rest of the antibiotics tested purchasedmicin, community sensitive MRSA, gentamicin (AUC).
The strain had a MIC to vancomycin of 1.5 μg/ml (E test).
After knowing the results it was decided to replace the combination of levofloxacin and imipenem, which had started in the ICU, by linezolid that received for 15 days.
During his stay in the ICU, the abscess of the hand was debrided, and in this case, a MRSA resistant to quinolones was isolated, with ligation by thrombosis of the cephalic vein.
At 13 days the patient was extubated and transferred to the conventional hospital ward.
During his stay in the plant he presented episodes of hemoptysis and a bronchial arteriography was performed which showed a pseudoaneurysm in a branch of the lower lobar artery that was embolized.
The MRSA strain isolated in the blood culture was sent to the Centro Nacional de Microbiología (Mahonda) for typing.
It was reported that the strain belonged to the phagogroup III (phagotype 84) and possessed the leukocidin gene of Panton-Valentine (LPV).
▁Pulsed field electrophoresis had a community profile.
A screening for MRSA was carried out among the healthcare personnel at our institution who had previously identified the patient with MRSA, but none of the patients had detected the presence of S. aureus with an antibiogram pattern similar to that of the patient.
FINAL DIAGNOSIS Septic Thromboflebitis due to CA-MRSA with septic pulmonary embolisms.
