Anamnesis A 74-year-old male patient, with no known drug allergies or toxic habits.
Personal history of type II diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, left submassive pulmonary thromboembolism and in study for renal failure.
Surgical history of right inguinal herniorrhaphy and laparoscopic cholecystectomy (2010).
Usual treatment: enalapril, torasemide, bisoprolol, insulin and acenocoumarol.
She came to the hospital emergency department due to deterioration of general condition, asthenia and weight loss, accompanied by pain in the hypogastrium and perineal region with dysuria of one month duration.
He did not report fever or dysthermic sensation.
Treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid by your primary care doctor
Conscious physical condition, oriented.
Mucocutaneous paleness and normohydration.
Cardiac auscultation revealed no murmurs.
Pulmonary consolidation: generalized hypoventilation.
Abdomen: blando, depresible, painful to palpation in the hypogastrium, without signs of peritoneal irritation; do not preserve masses or visceromegaly; peristalsis
External genitalia: atrophic right testicle, erythematous left testis, pasted suggestive of orchiepididymitis.
Rectal tract: perineal region without alterations; decreased anal sphincter tone; soft prostate not suspect (GI) or painful; refers involuntary loss of feces.
A urinary catheter is placed and a sample is taken for uroculture.
▁Complementary tests ● Analytical: hemoglobin 11.4 g/dl, hematocrit 34.5%, leukocytes 14.2 thousand/mm3, neutrophils 72.3%.
● Biochemistry: creatinine 1.6 mg/dl, glucose 300 mg/dl.
● Venous gas: pH 7.45, PaO2 36 mmHg, PaCO2 29 mmHg, HCO3 20.2 mmol/l.
● Urine: pH 5.5, 60-100 leukocytes/field, bacterial flora +++.
● Coagulation: prothrombin time 88.6 s, prothrombin activity 9%.
● INR-TP 7.31, TTPA 54.9 s, fibrinogen derived 794 mg/dl.
● Ultrasound: bile duct (13 mm).
▁Right kidney with normal morphology, size and echostructure.
Left kidney with cystic images of 4 cm plain appearance.
No bilateral pyelocaliceal dilatation.
Hypodense image is heterogeneous, and includes a mass extending to the splenic edge and anterior.
No free liquid is observed.
● Urocultiva: Klebsiella pneumoniae positive or not, resistant to standard antibiotics.
● Given the general condition of the patient and the findings and practices, it was decided to admit the patient to the Internal Medicine Department for study.
Antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin was initiated.
On the sixth day she presented diffuse abdominal pain and belly on a table, so an abdominal-pelvic computed tomography was performed: bilateral pleural effusion and peritoneal free fluid.
Hypodense nodular splenicle lesion of approximately 5 cm in diameter with peripheral area extending to the hilium and the gastrosplenic ligament, without ruling out a tumor.
Prostate abscesses (6 cm left lobe) and seminal vesicles with internal inferior descent of the levator ani muscle were identified.
Small amount of retrovesical fluid
Diagnosis Access interprotocol.
Splenic mass pending filiation.
Treatment A suprapump cystostomy was performed, as well as ultrasound-guided percutaneous drainage of the left proposis lobe with exit of 60 cc of pus, and of the right lobe with exit of the right lobe.
Two pigtail drainages were left in each lobe and intraprostatic instillation with tobramycin was performed.
Samples for Microbiology ( Klebsiella pneumoniae sensitive tobramycin is isolated).
Emerged pleural effusion was diagnosed after surgery with a diagnostic voiding cyst, compatible with pleural effusion.
A control tomography was requested, in which lymphadenopathy in retrocaval, subaortic, anterior diaphragmatic chain and retrocrural were observed.
Mass in the splenic hilium, probably through an adenopatic▁conglomerate with signs of tumor necrosis suggesting the possibility of a▁lymphoproliferative process: lymphoma.
Given the improvement in general status, the patient was discharged with bladder size, and scheduled surgery for bladder resection and transurethral resection of the prostate was evaluated after placement of a vena cava filter.
The patient was readmitted 14 days after discharge due to a great deterioration in his general condition, accompanied by diarrhea, abdominal distension and dyspnea at rest without fever, secondary to recurrence of his bilateral pleural effusion.
A new localization was performed, with pleural fluid cytology compatible with high-grade lymphoma.
She died of multiple organ failure.
