We report the case of a 44-year-old Spanish woman with a 5 year history of breast cancer in remission who was treated with surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
She was treated with tamoxifen, folic acid and vitamin B12 IM.
He denies toxic habits.
Master of the profession.
There are no animals or contacts with the rural environment.
She has not made previous trips.
He came to the emergency service with "something to defecate" the day before the consultation, together with abdominal discomfort and disorientation of several months of evolution.
Do not nausea or vomiting.
No abdominal pain.
No diarrhea or fever.
In the general laboratory, a slight leucopenia (3.35x10^3nL) with 0.33x10^3nL▁eosinophils stand out; other normal parameters.
Negative autoimmunity study.
A mild seizure was observed in the peripheral blood smear.
Coprocultive toxin, Clostridium difficile toxin and 2 tands were requested from 3 samples collected every other day, all of them negative.
The patient was initially diagnosed as suffering radiation sickness.
Differential diagnosis Differential diagnosis of colitis depends on whether the patient is tingling or native, whether a traveler or if he has HIV infection.
In our case, the patient is an autochthonous patient and we must consider several large groups: • Allergic reactions such as atopic dermatitis, asthma, allergic rhinitis, pharmacological reactions.
In the Western world, allergic reactions are the main cause of anaphylaxis, but we discard them because our patient does not refer to any history of interest.
Hypertensive crisis. Drugs are a common cause of morbidity in Western countries, and include antiepileptic drugs, antidepressants, antidepressants, antibiotics such as penicillins, cephalosporins, quinol
Treatment usually performed with tamoxifen, acfol and optovitis is not related to anaphylaxis.
• Malignancies and disorders: emphasis is placed on primary eosinophilic syndrome (HSS), acute or chronic eosinophilic leukemia in which immature▁eosinophils are seen in the smear.
Other myeloid and▁lymphoid▁neoplasms are also included.
Solid tumors, mainly adenocarcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract (stomach, large intestine), and squamous epithelium (uterine cervix, penis, skin, gastrointestinal tract, bladder).
Mature▁eosinophils were observed in the smears, so we ruled out tumors.
She had had breast cancer, but had been under follow-up due to nausea and vomiting and had been in complete remission for several years.
• Immunological and rheumatologic diseases: here we find systemic autoimmune diseases (Churg Strauss, eosinophilic fasciitis, severe forms of rheumatoid arthritis or Wegener's granulomatosis).
We ruled out it because the autoimmunity study was negative.
• Endocrine-metabolic diseases: adrenal insufficiency.
It was discarded by analytical results.
• Parasites and other infections: the most common infectious cause identified is infectious causes.
Although they are more frequent in patients from tropical regions, in our environment there are also some parasitic infections capable of producing vesicles.
The autochthonous defects that most frequently cause it are: - yloidiasis - stercolaris.
Penetrate directly on the skin in contact with soil or water contaminated with human▁faeces.
It may have a latency of years.
- Toxocariasis: Toxocariasis canis and cati.
They can be eaten with soil or food contaminated with dog or cat droppings.
Severe systemic involvement.
- Trichinella spiralis.
It is transmitted by ingestion of little meat, especially pig meat.
The diagnosis of the three above would be made by serology.
- Anisakis spp: is associated with the intake of raw fish such as salting, smoking, vinegar or low-cooked fish.
The diagnosis is made by visualization of the worm that is recovered from emesis or endoscopy.
Detection of specific IgE.
- Echinococcus granulosus: humans are infected by ingestion of Echinococcus eggs present in contaminated food, water or soil.
- Fasciola hepatica, the infection is acquired by ingestion of raw vegetables or contaminated water.
- Taenia spp: is transmitted by ingestion of meat that has not been thoroughly tested.
The diagnosis is made through the clinical history and morphometric characteristics after the visualization of the eggs in▁faeces and the annealing.
After this first consultation, we recommend the patient to perform a photo again if he returns to an exponent of this material per year.
In the following week, the patient came to the hospital with only the image of an elastic white material of almost one meter long, referring to the emission of a microbe or at a later stage similar to the previous one, but smaller size: 1.
The patient was a proglottis of Taenia spp (probably T. saginata) after diagnosis of tennis, she was treated with Praziquantel 5-10mg/kg of single dose (450mg).
It was recommended to monitor stools for 3 months after treatment.
The case was discussed with the Preventive Service who indicated that it was necessary to wash hands and hygiene, but contacts did not need to take any special measures.
The patient was subsequently reviewed in the Infectious Diseases outpatient clinics: since the treatment she was completely asymptomatic, and she had not presented a year-long emission of previously described white material.
Final diagnosis Intention by Taenia saginata.
