Consultation time Ulcerative ulcers in the penis
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) 21-year-old male.
She denied drug allergies.
She had no medical or surgical history.
It does not require usual treatment.
Current illness: comes from ulcerative lesions on pruritic and non-painful glans, ulcers.
She reported having had sexual intercourse for two months without a protective barrier.
The patient is in good general condition, conscious, oriented, cooperative, well hydrated and perfused, with normal color, eupneic at rest.
Genital consolidation: A single 1.5 cm adenopathy with right inguinal diameter.
Several milimetric lesions on the base of the glans, granulomatous type, ulcerated at the center of 3-4 mm diameter not painful to manipulation.
▁Complementary tests: Analytical: normal 3 cell lines and biochemistry including renal function and C-reactive protein.
Serology: positive for syphilis and gonorrhea, and possible infection hepatitis B (positive antibodies, pending receiving), and negative HIV serology (first performing antigens), hepatitis C negative.
Family and community approach Single male, homosexual, without a stable sexual partner, university.
Clinical judgement (problem-listed, differential diagnosis) Syphilis and gonorrhea
Possible hepatitis B (HBVAg negative, awaiting HBeAg testing).
First serological test for HIV-negative infection, awaiting a second serological test within 6 months to check for seroconversion or not.
Differential diagnosis: ETS: chancro blando, inguinal granuloma,▁lymphogranuloma venereum, genital herpes, human papilloma, molluscs.
Inflammatory psoriasis: Behcet's syndrome, Sd Reiter.
Neoplasms:▁erythroplakia of Queyrat, basotelioma, squamous cell carcinoma, malignant melanoma.
Action and evolution Plan 2.4 million IU single intramuscular dose is administered.
She was referred to the Internal Medicine outpatient clinic for further study and treatment if necessary.
It is communicated to the preventive unit because it is an Obligious Diseases Declaration for the Study and if necessary the treatment of the patient's sexual partners.
