We report the case of a 41-year-old black male, born in Nigeria and who suffered from recurrent seizures in Spain since he was 24 years old.
He traveled to Nigeria on an almost annual basis, and his last trip had been made recently, returning 10 days before the time he consulted.
He worked with his brother at a store.
She had a steady partner for 4 years.
She had no known drug allergies.
He was a regular cannabis consumer.
She had no relevant medical history and was not under regular treatment.
She was admitted in February 2017 with a ten-day history of dyspnea, cough and whitish sputum.
She also complained of pleuritic pain in her left side.
The patient also presented asthenia, fever without thermometering and weight loss not quantified.
In addition, non-pruritic or painful skin lesions that had started the previous month were in their country.
On physical examination, the patient was in good general condition, conscious and oriented.
Blood pressure was 108/75 mmHg, heart rate was 80 beats per minute and oxygen saturation was 90 % breathing room air.
Afebril.
The patient had non-painful lymphadenopathies of between one and two centimeters in diameter, with smooth edges and not adhered to deep planes at cervical, axillary and inguinal levels.
He had skin lesions at the trunk, upper and lower extremities consisting of hyperpigmented▁papules of about 5 mm in diameter that affected plants and respected palms.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed crack, no murmurs or cardiac ropes, with biphasic roncus.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible, without masses or enlargements and painless.
The lower limbs showed no edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Blood count showed a hemoglobin of 16.3 g/dl, 7,820 leukocytes per microliter with 3,430 neutrophils per microliter, 3,110 lymphocytes per microliter, 1,060 monocytes per microliter.
Coagulation was within normal limits.
Basic biochemistry, C-reactive protein, liver profile and proteinogram were within normal limits.
Legionella and pneumococcus antigenuria were negative.
The chest X-ray showed a cardiac silhouette within normal limits, with a diffuse bilateral interstitial infiltrate, more marked in the pulmonary bases, without mediastinal widening with costophrenic sinuses.
The electrocardiogram was normal.
With the initial suspicion of pulmonary tuberculosis, Mantoux and sputum smear were negative.
PCR of nasopharyngeal▁exudate was also performed, which was positive for influenza A non H1N1 virus.
Subsequently, a fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy and a culture of mycobacteria in the blood were requested.
During the fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy procedure, an important hypoxemia event occurred, which prevented the correct performance of the test, so the test was interchanged and only samples could be taken by BAS for microbiology.
Bronchopulmonary structures were described as normal.
The following microbiological results were received: culture of the BAS for bacteria and staining of cystic lesions jirovecii and negative mycobacteria.
Serology for HIV, HBV, HCV and syphilis were negative.
Proteinogram was normal.
The culture was pending in Löwestein's medium.
Treatment was initiated with oseltamivir and levofloxacin because it was not possible to rule out pneumonia caused by bacteria.
To complete the study of polyadenopatic syndrome with skin lesions, a CT scan of the chest and abdomen, biopsy of the adenopathy and biopsy of the skin lesions were requested.
Although correct treatment for influenza was initiated, on the fifth day of admission clinical deterioration with increased dyspnea and respiratory distress was observed, which is why it is valued by the Intensive Care Unit admission.
The poor clinical situation resulted from orotracheal intubation and required hemodynamic support with vasoactive drugs.
Chest CT showed bilateral and diffuse alveolar infiltrates in both lung fields with air bronchogram, condensation and areas of ground glass in relation to respiratory distress.
In the left axillary region, lymphadenopathies of 9.5 to 11.5 mm of short axis were observed.
He did not have hiliar or mediastinal lymphadenopathy.
Abdominal CT showed hepatomegaly with smooth contours and homogeneous density.
Adenopathies of between 9 and 21 mm were observed at the paraaortic level, paracaval, interaortic stenosis and in both iliac arteries.
In addition, multiple lytic lesions were observed in the dorsolumbar spine, ribs, scapulas, clavicles and pelvis, the largest of 14 mm in the right iliac palatine.
Differential diagnosis We found in a patient with no previous data of immunosuppression with pulmonary infiltrates, negative sputum smear, a positive influenza test with poor clinical outcome despite the initiation of the correct treatment.
The presence of lytic adenopathy, skeletal malformations and cutaneous lesions raise questions about a number of possible diagnoses.
Among the autoimmune diseases, sarcoidosis should be considered.
Skin lesions in sarcoidosis are very varied.
The most common form is erythema nodosum.
The▁papule-shaped involvement is also common but typically has a different distribution than our patient, extending to the face instead of trunk and extremities.
Bone involvement is usually due to arthritis or bone cysts in the hands and feet that our patient did not present.
In addition, contrary to the diagnosis of sarcoidosis, the absence of typical hydatid lymphadenopathy would go.
Disseminated fungal infection should be considered.
Histoplasmosis is the most common cause of fungal respiratory infection.
The duboissi variety is the most frequently affected bone and skin.
The negativity in the culture obtained by BAS would contradict this diagnosis.
In addition, the capsulatum variety is endemic in some countries of the Sudden and Northern States, and the duboisii variety in Central Africa is not endemic in Nigeria.
Another cause of disseminated mycosis is blastomycosis.
Bone involvement is typically described as lytic lesions as in our case.
Cutaneous lesions of blastomycosis are not similar to those of our case, since they are typically described as blastomycosis with irregular borders and grayish or microwave grayish.
It is also endemic in areas of the United States and Canada.
Disseminated cryptosis presents lytic bone involvement, as in our patient.
Cutaneous involvement may be▁papules but plaques or ulcers.
In favor of the diagnosis would be the fact that the infection has a worldwide distribution, but against it would be the absence of meningoencephalitis, which is the most frequent affection in cryptosis.
Regarding tuberculosis, we know that a negative sputum smear does not rule out the presence of pulmonary tuberculosis, since we are still waiting for culture in Löwestein's medium.
However, it would be surprising that having such extensive lung involvement, smear microscopy was negative.
Our patient was unlikely to have disseminated extrapulmonary tuberculosis.
Contrary to this possibility, we have that our patient does not have HIV infection, differentiated colostasis, persistent fever, or lymphadenopathy with hypodense center on imaging tests suggestive of necrosis.
Bacillear angiomatosis would be another diagnosis to be considered, caused by Bartonella henselae.
This gram-negative bacillus is endemic worldwide.
Among its forms of bone involvement is lytic lesions, as in our case.
Contrary to the diagnosis would be the fact that the patient does not have HIV infection, being this group of patients in which this condition is most often described.
In addition, it would go against the fact that skin lesions begin as red or blue vesicles and gradually spread.
This was not the form of skin involvement in our patient.
Another diagnostic possibility would be Kaposi's Sarcoma.
Human herpes virus 8 is the causative agent. It is the most common neoplasm in untreated HIV patients but also appears in other immunosuppression states.
At the cutaneous level, the presence of a multicentric vascular tumor produces▁papules or macules that coalesce or red coalesce and form plaques or nodules.
Occasionally, nodules can penetrate into blade and bone tissue.
HIV negativity makes this diagnosis less likely, together with the fact that the skin lesions presented by our patient do not resemble those typically described in Kaposi's sarcoma.
The polyadenopathic picture could suggest that it is a▁lymphoproliferative syndrome that would not be ruled out until an adenopathic biopsy is available.
In this case a series of diagnoses could be proposed.
Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a proliferative disorder of histiocytes at the level of multiple organs that can affect bones, skin, lungs and other organs such as the spleen and liver.
It can affect any age group but unlike what happens in our case, it is more typical that is diagnosed in childhood.
Hairy cell leukemia is a rare▁lymphoproliferative process of B cells from blood, bone marrow and spleen.
Bone marrow biopsy showed fibrosis.
In peripheral blood, the leukemic cells would show cytoplasmic proyelocalizations that appear as "cold cells".
This diagnosis would be supported by the fact that it is described more frequently in men than in women with a 4:1 ratio.
Although it is considered uncommon, individuals with lytic bone lesions and cutaneous involvement have been described, but unlike our case, the most frequent skeletal involvement is usually in the femoral head or neck and other affected areas are tibia,
Castelman's disease or also called angiofollicular hyperplasia of lymphatic nodules in its multicentric form would be another possibility.
Human herpes virus 8 has been described as the etiologic agent of the disease in both HIV-infected and uninfected patients.
In this case, lytic bone lesions are not as frequent and skin lesions are not very similar to our patient, since they usually appear as▁papules presenting vesicular lesions7.
Adult T-cell leukemia is related to Human Lymphotropic Virus type 1.
Clinically, it can present as lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenic enlargement, lytic bone lesions that are accompanied by hypercalcemia and skin lesions that can be very varied.
The incidence of this condition is higher in patients coming from areas where HTLV1 is endemic, as in Western Africa where our patient came from.
A▁lymphoproliferative disorder associated with this virus cannot be ruled out in our patient.
The patient remained in the ICU for a prolonged period of time.
It was decided to add methylprednisolone treatment when a respiratory distress syndrome was suspected.
Antibiotic therapy was modified based on levofloxacin and ceftriaxone.
Oseltamivir was discontinued after 5 days of treatment.
Several biopsies of skin lesions were performed and samples were sent for microbiological and pathological study.
Culture for mycobacteria was negative.
Histochemical technique of PAS was performed, describing in the report a chronic perivascular and interstitial inflammatory infiltrate without identifying colitis.
A new HIV serology was requested, which became negative again.
As a complication associated with mechanical ventilation, the patient developed a bilateral pneumonia, isolated from the BAS, and in the hemocultive Klebsiella pneumoniae producing the beta-blockade extended spectrum.
For this reason, antibiotic therapy was modified starting with amikacin and preventing infections.
Analytically, the patient presented a progressive elevation of leukocytosis, with a maximum value of 77,920 leukocytes with 70,360 neutrophils, 4,900 lymphocytes, monocytes and 0▁eosinophils.
Progressive thrombopenia occurs, reaching platelets a value of 59,000 and progressive anemia reaching the hemoglobin level of 100 g/L.
On the 20th day of ICU admission, the patient presented significant hemodynamic deterioration, requiring high doses of vasoactive drugs and extracorporeal renal clearance due to failure of renal function.
A chest X-ray showed a cavity in the right middle lobe.
Sequested mannan in blood with result of 4.41 U/ml and due to the high suspicion of disseminated fungal infection, empirical treatment was initiated with liposomal amphotericin B and voriconazole.
Two days after starting antifungal treatment and 23 days after admission to the ICU, the patient died.
Necropsy was requested with the following report: Existence of a bilateral necrotizing pneumonia cavitated with culture positive for Aspergillus fumigatus and extensive associated diffuse alveolar damage.
In the analysis of mediastinal lymph nodes, the following microscopic description is performed: lymphatic▁ganglia with a large size consisting of diffuse▁lymphoproliferative process, which does not erase the different pleomorphic architecture, with a large predominance of cells.
In the IHQ study, this cellularity shows a phenotype CD3(+)/CD5+/ CD7-, TCRbetaF1+, CD4+/CD8-, CD43(+), CD25+, PDgran.1-,
Once a T rearrangement study was conducted, clonality was detected.
The diagnosis was adult T-cell lymphoma/leukemia.
Three weeks later, a report of the Carlos III Institute with positive results for HTLV1 was received.
Final diagnosis Severe bilateral pneumonia due to influenza virus.
Acute necrotizing bilateral pneumonia cavitated by Aspergillus fumigatus with signs of angioinvasion.
Adult T-cell lymphoma/leukemia associated with HTLV1 infection.
