Anamnesis A 50-year-old woman with a personal history of disc herniation, one at the cervical level doubled operated with good evolution and others at the lumbar level L4-L5 and L5-S1 that compromised the recess were symptomatic.
The patient came to the emergency room three days after having been treated by the Pain Unit with epidural block of bupivacaine and triblock treatment since performing posture headache worsened with bipedalism and improved with decubitus.
She was treated by internal medicine and was discharged with a diagnosis of post-epidural headache and analgesic treatment with oral caffeine.
Five days after she came to the emergency department, the patient was referred back to the hospital by the SUMMA for having presented two generalized tonic-clonic seizures, without recovery of the level of consciousness.
The suspicion of this condition was ruled out and she was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit.
Her family reported that between the two visits to the emergency room headache persisted despite treatment, without having suffered changes in intensity or characteristics.
The patient had a family history of stroke by her father and two paternal aunts at ages below 60 years.
Arterial hypertension was present in 120 patients, heart rate was 120 bpm, and nasal pulses were present in 97%.
Cardiac auscultation revealed preserved breath sounds without added sounds, abdominal examination and examination of the lower limbs without pathological changes.
Glasgow Coma Scale score 9/15 (order 3 ocular opening; does not emit language 1, and locates painful stimuli 5).
The patient had bilateral and symmetrical mydriasis pupils, reactive to light.
Located trunks.
He had left upper limb paresis, with spontaneous mobility of the rest, locating painful stimuli adequately.
No abnormal movements were observed.
The respiratory pattern was normal.
▁Complementary tests • Emergency analysis: 15,670 leukocytes with 68.3% neutrophils.
Díble foil 3,10 μg/l.
Complete blood count, biochemistry and coagulation were normal.
• Microbiological study: core syphilis, Brucella, agglutination, Mycoplasma pneumoniae IgM and Borrelia burgdorferi (G + M): negative.
• Immunological study: normal.
• Study of thrombophilia (factor VIII, protein C, functional protein S, antigenic protein S (total and free), functional endogenous 119% (75-120), resistance.
Activ C protein.
negative.
Anticipated lupus: normal.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis (bleeding fluid): white blood cell count 20 cells/ mm3, glucose 73 mg/dl, protein 89 mg/dl, A▁adenosine deaminase 7.16 IU/dl.
• CSF microbiology: negative Ziehl-Nielsen staining.
No microorganisms were observed in gram stain.
Culture of mycobacteria, aerobics and anaerobic negative.
• Urine toxicology: negative.
• Chest X-ray: no infiltrates.
• Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 100 bpm.
• Emergency skull computed tomography (CT): hyperdensity was observed in the interspheric frontal sulci up to the level of the third ventricle in relation to subarachnoid hemorrhage.
• Brain MRI: thrombosis of the superior longitudinal sinus.
Complete occlusion of the anterior half of the superior and partial longitudinal sinus of the first half of the posterior half, so that only the posterior fourth was clearly permeable.
Patent lobe melanoma in the right frontal lobe.
Vasogenic edema appeared to correspond to some areas of cytotoxic edema, especially at the cortical level on the convexity.
Rare bleeding components.
Interspherical subarachnoid hemorrhage high.
Low-volume intraventricular hemorrhage.
Do not hydrocephalia.
Brain MRI showed parenchymal lesions in the right frontal lobe.
They seem to correspond to vasogenic edema with some areas of cytotoxic edema, especially at the cortical level on the convexity.
Rare bleeding components.
Interspherical subarachnoid hemorrhage high.
Low-volume intraventricular hemorrhage.
Do not hydrocephalia.
• Control CT (10 days after admission): good radiological evolution with resolution of the right frontal hematoma and almost subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Decreased mass effect of parenchymal injury.
• Video-electroencephalogram wakefulness control in which very mild signs of brain involvement were recorded in the left temporal region on an adequate background activity.
There were no▁epileptiform anomalies or seizures.
Diagnosis • CSF hypotension syndrome following epidural anaesthesia.
• Venous thrombosis in the sagittal sinus.
•▁Right frontal ischaemic infarction and subarachnoid haemorrhage.
• Convulsive status.
Treatment and evolution The patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with a diagnosis of convulsive status. Antiepileptic drug treatment with levetiracetam was initiated, followed by urgent CT of the skull, in the lumbar region.
Subsequently, cerebral venous thrombosis was diagnosed by MRI and cerebral angio-MRI and it was decided to start anticoagulant treatment with low molecular weight heparin, with subsequent change to acenocoumarol.
Cerebral MR angiography: thrombosis of the superior longitudinal sinus: complete occlusion of the anterior half of the superior longitudinal sinus and partial occlusion of the first half of the posterior half, so that only the posterior fourth is clearly permeable.
The patient was admitted to the neurology unit for five days in the ICU due to a good evolution.
Upon discharge, the patient was neurologically asymptomatic.
Anticoagulation with acenocoumarol was maintained for three months and then switched to antiplatelet therapy.
After the acute episode, the patient did not present new▁epileptic seizures, so a year later, and after performing a control EEG that was normal, the antiepileptic drug was withdrawn.
Immunological and thrombophilia studies were negative.
Up to now, the patient has asymptomatic episodes with no new neurological or thrombosis at another level.
