A previously healthy 1-year and 11-month-old female patient, resident in the urban area of the city, with a history of overcrowding life, was admitted to the hospital in May.
Parents reported that, since birth, they had had close contact with animals, specifically dogs and cats, which did not receive preventive treatment against ticks and were frequently parasitized by them.
The patient started with acute hyperthermia, which persisted for 3 days, intermittent type with peaks of up to 38.8 oC, accompanied by generalized macular exanthema.
On the third day, diffuse colic abdominal pain was added, which, due to its intensity, required admission to the second level of medical care for study.
During the first hours of her stay, she presented complex partial seizures, secondary to generalized by 40 minutes of time, so the airway was secured with endotracheal intubation diphenylthalanine and diphenylthalanine was initiated ciphenylthione.
A central venous catheter was installed and the patient was referred to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU).
The patient was admitted to the PICU in poor general conditions, with data of septic shock and low cardiac output manifested by hypotension below the 5th percentile for her age, tachycardia, anuria, weak central pulse, palpable pulse, filling.
The patient also presented petechial and purpuric lesions in the abdomen and extremities both upper and lower and distal ischemia in the fingers, data that reflected a vasculitic process.
During his stay, mechanical ventilation was maintained controlled by sedation and analgesia with fentanyl/midazolam, meropenem/vancomycin scheme adjusted to renal damage, fluid loading crystalloid solutions at 20 ml/kg/day disseminated heparin infusion,
Gas, which showed metabolic acidosis of 49%, with venous saturation and a central venous pressure reading (CVP) of 14 cmH2O, was obtained.
Paraclinical analyses revealed imminent organ failure with renal and hepatic involvement, as well as marked leukocytosis and thrombocytopenia, so 10 ml/kg of fresh plasma and 2 concentrated platelets were administered.
Due to the patient's history and clinical status, a diagnosis of cryptosis was requested from our Institute.
Positive indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) was used to 1:128 R. ricona homologies as well as in our environment, together with amplification and sequencing of the gene OmpB 17
Shortly after 24 hours of admission and before 6 hours in the PICU, the patient presented data of septic shock secondary to multiple organ failure, ICD and cardiorespiratory arrest that did not respond to advanced maneuvers.
The serological diagnosis was obtained hours before the patient died, while the molecular diagnosis was obtained postmortem.
