The 23-year-old male patient, HIV-positive, acquired through vertical transmission, was admitted on June 12, 2010, with headache for a week.
On computed tomography (CT) of the brain (without contrast), he presented a hypodense image in the right frontal lobe and another left paraventricular.
Empirical treatment for toxoplasmosis was initiated.
She had a history of diarrhea due to Isospora belli and negative serology for syphilis, toxoplasmosis, Chagas disease and primary hepatotropic virus.
The patient was started on antiretroviral therapy (HAV) 2 years earlier, then multiple schemes with non-adherence were completed.
He is not a IV drug user and lives in a house of construction material with complete health care.
He traveled to the endemic area at 18 years of age.
Abdominal ultrasound revealed hepatosplenic enlargement, left kidney with increased medullary echogenicity, isoechoic retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy and mild pericardial effusion.
The eye fundus was normal and the CD4+ T lymphocyte count was 198 cells/mm3.
Chest X-ray was normal.
She presented seizures, sensory impairment, headache and paresthesias in the right upper limb, which led to a lumbar puncture, from which cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was obtained crystal of rock, with 47 g/dl of glucose.
Parasitological study revealed micromorphologically compatible mobile elements with T. cruzi tryptates.
Serology for Chagas disease was negative with particle agglutination (PA), hemagglutination (HAI) and indirect enzyme-immune agglutination (ELISA) techniques.
Indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) was positive with a titer of 1/64 (cut-off value 1/32), and then negative in 3 subsequent determinations performed in the same laboratory.
The application of the Strout technique was positive.
Treatment was initiated with Beznidazole (vo), which was administered at 5 oC.
day was suspended by the appearance of a severe pruritic skin rash and was replaced by Nifurtimox (vo), while treatment for toxoplasmosis was suspended.
On the 5th day, the patient developed fever and sinus tachycardia with transient hemodynamic instability.
The echocardiogram showed a slight increase in the size of the left ventricle, with preserved systolic function, and mild concentric hypertrophy and pericardial effusion, configuring a restrictive pattern.
At 14 days, the patient presented with symptoms of heart failure and chest X-ray revealed acute myocardial dilatation with a pattern of pulmonary flow ̈stable ̈.
Electrocardiogram showed 1st degree AV block and a new echocardiogram showed decreased systolic function and acute myocardial dilation with signs of failure.
She was treated with enalapril, choline magnesium sulfate, furosemide, and corticoids as myocardial infarction, which improved.
Twenty-six days after admission, vancomycin was started due to a catheter-related methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection.
ART was restarted with Zidodine, Lamictal; Ritonavir; and Saquinavir.
The ECG showed A-V block. The patient had nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, increased blood urea and potassium.
Vancomycin, ART and diuretics were discontinued and daptomycin was continued.
At 55 days of hospitalization, the patient was discharged and continued treatment with Nifurtimox.
