Anamnesis A 36-year-old male smoker of 6 cigarettes/ day, with no relevant medical or surgical history.
She has a family history of migraine without aura.
He does not follow any treatment in a regular way or consume toxics.
The patient comes to the emergency department for severe frontal bilateral oppressive headache of approximately 6 hours of evolution, not triggered by physical effort together with paresthesias that affect both the trunk and the face and extremities.
It does not associate fever, nausea, vomiting, photophobia or sonophobia.
Pain gets worse with cervical movements in any direction.
From the onset of symptoms describes language impairment consisting of difficulty in finding words and writing.
Approximately one hour after admission to the emergency department, headache and clinical symptoms partially improve.
However, language progressively deteriorates until it presents impoverished language with unfinished monosyllabic and short sentences.
In the last month, his wife reported 3-4 episodes of headache of moderate intensity that, on at least one occasion, were accompanied by right hemicorporeal numbness without language, motor or visual impairment.
Establishment of a clinical diagnosis of chronic hepatitis C.
Major restlessness.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal.
Awareness and guidance on three
No neck stiffness, negative King and Brudzinski signs.
Language: preserved articulation and repetition.
Failure to name
Difficulty understanding some complex orders
Blalia.
Unfinished sentences, executive.
Normal reactive isochoric hairs.
Normal eye motor nerves
Confrontation Campimetry and other normal cranial nerves.
No motor or sensory deficits, dysmetria or dysdiadochokinesia were observed.
Osteotendinous reflexes are normal and symmetric.
The cutaneous-plantar reflex is bilateral flexor and gait does not present alterations.
Additional tests • Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm.
No repolarization alterations.
• Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index, no infiltrates.
Free costophrenic sinuses.
• Complete blood count, coagulation and biochemistry results are normal.
• Urine analysis: non-pathological.
Undetected toxic substances
• Cranial computed tomography (CT): parenchymal and ventricular structures without alterations.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study: clear liquid, opening pressure 22 cm H2O, 76 leukocytes with 96% mononuclear, glucose 57 mg/dl, proteins 70 mg/dl.
Sterile liquid.
Cryptococci, loes, Borrelia, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for herpes simplex virus (HSV) 1 and 2 negative.
• Immunology: antiphospholipid antibodies, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, anti-DNA, organospecific and non-organospecific negative.
• Microbiological serum study: IgM for cytomegalovirus positive, IgG for varicella zoster virus and ESR positive.
Serology of hepatitis B and C virus, human immunodeficiency virus, loes, Borrelia, Brucela negative.
▁Cytomegalovirus antigenemia was negative.
• Biomarkers negative.
• Electroencephalogram (EEG): globally slow, fluctuating and with marked reactivity to stimuli suggestive of mild diffuse encephalopathy.
• Doppler ultrasound of the supraaortic trunks (performed 24 hours after resolution of symptoms): patent carotid axes without atheromatosis, permeable vertebral with left dominance.
Transcranial: permeable symmetrical middle cerebral arteries (MAC).
Normal velocities and pulsatility indices.
Apnea test was performed: reactivity above normal values in both MCA, higher in the left MCA.
• Magnetic resonance imaging: normal study.
• Cerebral SPECT: cerebellum and partially hypoperfused subcortical structures.
A significant bilateral generalized hypoperfusion is identified at the cortical level, with predominance of large perfusion defects in the left hemisphere, mainly in the frontoparietal region.
Cerebral SPECT at admission: severe global hypoperfusion, predominantly left.
Treatment and evolution The patient has progression of focal symptoms described in the hours after arrival to the emergency department.
A lumbar puncture was performed, detecting▁lymphocytic pleocytosis and hyperproteinorrhachia. Treatment was initiated with a virologic aegis and was admitted to the Neurology ward when viral encephalitis was suspected.
Twelve hours later, complete remission of symptoms was observed, and the patient partially remembered what had happened.
C-reactive protein for ESR is suspended for antiviral treatment and analgesia is maintained with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
During admission, the patient presents an episode of mild acute renal failure secondary to treatment with a viridaemia, corrected with abundant hydration.
During the following month, the patient presents daily episodes of headache of moderate intensity with usual analgesia, lasting several hours, asymptomatic between episodes.
On one occasion, headache is accompanied by a change in language emission and right hemicorporeal hypoesthesia, with spontaneous resolution.
Since then, two months after the first episode, the patient remains asymptomatic.
SPECT was repeated two months after the first episode of neurological focality, with normalization of cerebral perfusion.
SPECT at 2 months: almost absolute recovery of left hemicraneal hypoperfusion.
Diagnosis Headache syndrome and transient neurological deficit with cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis (HNDL syndrome).
