Anamnesis This is a 74-year-old male patient with a history of diabetes mellitus, ischemic stroke in the middle cerebral artery, bilateral carotid occlusion, chronic cerebrovascular disease, Binswanger encephalopathy.
Establishment of a permanent bladder catheter.
He came to the emergency department with fever of up to 38.5 oC and urethrorrhagia after routine replacement of the urinary catheter.
Pathologic confirmation of arterial hypertension 80/40 mmHg.
Temperature 38.3 oC.
Superficial tachypnea.
The edematous and painful region was observed, with crepitation due to palpation.
Penile ecchymosis with▁cyanotic glans and signs of ischemia.
Rest of the exploration without interest.
▁Complementary tests • Analytical: creatinine 0.47 mg/dl, urea 52 mg/dl, sodium 143 mEq/l, potassium 2.8 mEq/l, hemoglobin 9.3 g/dl, hematocrit 27.9%, INR 1.9 μl
Tiempo cefalin 32.2 s, prothrombin time 11.60 s, derived fibrinogen > 740 mg/dl.
• Abdominopelvic computed tomography: enlarged prostate with small bowel stenosis.
Perineal collection with abundant gas within 25 x 56 mm and continued to the lake of the urethral tract.
The gaseous component dissects the plans of the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the penis.
Burbs along the path of the femoral and external iliac veins, findings consistent with Fournier's spasm.
• Pathologic culture: Klebsiella pneumoniae.
Diagnosis▁Definitive histopathology indicates necrotizing fasciitis with extensive ischemic episodes - pharyngitis that affects the bulbar urethra, the foreskin, the spongy body, the distal urethra and the penis.
Fournier's▁gangrene secondary to urological manipulation with vesical catheterization.
Treatment After degloving the penis, massive necrosis of the urethra and spongy body is observed, with periurethral purulent collection at bulbar level.
Surgical debridement and a subtotal urethrectomy were performed up to the level of the urethral bulb, with partial associated section of the corpus▁cavernosum, leaving a penile stump of about 3 cm.
Finally, a catheterized perineal urethrostomy was performed with a Foley 20 Ch bladder catheter.
According to the Infectious Diseases Department, initial intravenous treatment with imipenem and metronidazole is performed, which is adjusted after the result of the antibiogram, being changed by imipenem and amikacin.
Surgical wound healing not requiring surgical intervention, the patient remains hemodynamically in the IVU for the first 48 hours, after which he is extubated and after conventional hospitalization, where he evolves favorably with local wound healing
She was discharged 15 days later.
