A 3-year-old and a half-year-old girl, who was known to be seen in the clinic since birth, was referred to our hospital.
She has no remarkable family or perinatal history.
Psychomotor development and normal height.
Well vaccinated according to the official calendar of the Autonomous Community.
▁Pneumococcal c and rotavirus vaccines were also given. The reason for consultation was Acude in May 2012 due to a fever of 39o of 24 hours onset.
The mother says it hurts her throat.
There is no other clinic.
"Drah, the girl has a great deal of angina.
I think she should be seen by the specialist,' said the mother.
The examination of the patient in consultation is that of a girl with good general condition, no exanthema or joint involvement, acp: normal, abdomen without visceromegaly, negative meningeal signs.
The child presents painful submandibular adenopathy and marked hyperemia ̈non-clear exudation ̈.
No petechiae in taste.
No oral ulcers are seen.
-It is always the throat, isn't it?- asks the mother-- • Given the clinical examination and the doubt of the possible etiology of the condition, it is decided to perform a rapid test of Streptococcus pyogenes that is negative.
• The mother is informed about the result and the attitude to follow: symptomatic treatment with antipyretics and warn if positive culture - Always tell me the same thing, but the child is very badly infected for a mother for 4 days.
The clinical history of the patient is reviewed, showing that since October 2011 she had consulted every month for the same condition and the same examination had been recorded in the history, having performed the same test in all consultations with negative results.
It was decided at this time to assess these periodic consultations, questioning the possible underlying cause of them.
The medical history is reviewed to check that the child has not consulted for other processes.
She has not been admitted due to infectious or other causes.
NADA , are typical pictures of children in the first year of school.
Complete study of immunity in the case of immunodeficiency.
And an autoinflammatory disease?
Put on the otolaryngologist because he is clear enough to perform surgery.
It was decided in this consultation to perform a basic analytical and urine culture.
The insistence of the mother is derived to the otolaryngologist.
Your appointment is scheduled to check your history and see the results.
Coinciding with the analytical review and the response of the otolaryngologist, the child presents a new fever with a throat focus similar to the last consultation.
It's been a month.
Blood tests did not show significant alterations except TSH slightly elevated.
Urocultiva was negative.
The mother reports the otolaryngologist's response: these are normal processes and do not meet surgical criteria.
The mother already requests the antibiotic that will be missed for definitive cure.
This time he won't go without it.
It was decided in this consultation to indicate treatment with prednisolone suspension: 2 mg/Kg single dose and review of the girl in 24 hours.
The following day, the girl was seen in consultation with a diagnosis of anaphylaxis after treatment and good general condition.
This response to corticosteroids leads us to reflect on the clinical picture and management of this patient and thus the mother is informed.
It was decided not to perform new tests.
The child meets clinical criteria for the diagnosis of the so-called PFAPA- syndrome.
He consulted again for similar processes until January 2013.
They continue to be monthly episodes in which a negative Streptococcus pyogenes test is performed in all cases.
Prednisolone was prescribed with similar response: remission of fever within 24 hs.
No other intercurrent clinical processes were observed.
The child has consulted during 2013 for three febrile episodes similar to those of 2012 which were 12 in total (one month after reviewing the history).
The mother agrees to perform a throat test when there is an examination compatible with an ENT focus.
It remains asymptomatic between processes.
The mother's pressure to request antibiotic therapy due to the good response of the child to treatment with corticosteroids in febrile episodes of throat origin and negative▁exudate cultures.
