Anamnesis A 28-year-old male with a history of cryptorchidism surgery in childhood, with no toxic habits or other relevant medical or surgical history.
He came to the emergency department of his reference hospital for a one-week history of fever, asthenia, mild bitemporal headache and general▁malaise.
Symptomatic treatment and monodoses of moxifloxacin were initiated, however, the patient worsened clinically, increasing the intensity of headache, adding dizziness such as instability, difficulty swallowing, and bcular double facial hypoesthesia.
In the following days she presented persistent hiccups after meals, so she finally consulted again in the Emergency Department.
Physical examination revealed mild paresis of the right external rectus and right upper rectus, horizontal-rotatory nystagmus in the horizontal gaze on both sides with subtle vertical component, left facial hypoesthesia
Routine blood count, biochemistry, coagulation, thyroid hormones, vitamin B12, folate, proteinogram and autoimmunity study (including IgG-NMO-LBC) were requested, without finding abnormalities, and analysis of cerebrospinal fluid
Conventional and mycobacterial culture, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for herpesvirus and enterovirus, arbovirus, Toscana and Nile were negative, as well as cytology for cultured cells.
Transthoracic echocardiography showed no abnormalities, and emergency cranial computed tomography (CT) was normal.
A cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed diffuse involvement of the white matter in the left bulbar region, with mild mass effect, as well as left periventricular cerebellar peduncle, left periventricular level, hemibel.
Given the findings of the complementary tests, the clinical picture was interpreted as a viral or post-infectious rombencephalitis, and the patient received treatment with ablative therapy and dexamethasone for ten days.
At the end of the procedure, the patient improved clinically and radiologically: the diplopia disappeared, the instability and the tapering improved.
A follow-up brain MRI showed a new image of white matter involvement in the right cerebellar hemisphere. Lumbar puncture was repeated (without changes from the initial treatment with▁steroids).
Two days after starting steroid treatment, the patient developed localized headache in the occipital region, dizziness, nausea, vomiting and intolerance to food intake.
Antibiotic treatment was initiated with cefepime, metronidazole and ampicillin at high doses, and the antiedema measures intensified, despite which the patient suffered intense prostration.
An urgent cranial CT was performed, which showed▁incipient hydrocephalia due to IV ventricle involvement due to increased edema in the posterior fossa.
Finally, the Neurosurgery Department of our hospital was contacted for monitoring and possible surgical management if needed.
Once the patient was admitted to this service, they requested our assessment.
Additional tests • Blood count, biochemistry and coagulation were normal.
Hepatitis B and serology, human immunodeficiency virus, Toxoplasma, cytomegalovirus, loos, Brucella, Borrellia,▁parotiditis, pneumonia were negative and C▁deficient.
Herpes simplex serology was positive, as well as Epstein&#146;s anomaly (which indicated past infection).
• Blood cultures were negative.
• Transesophageal echocardiography was normal.
• The MRI showed multiple nodular hyperintense T2-weighted hyperintense lesions located in the vermis, both hemispherical and intensely fixed T2-weighted sequences, with uptake of the right hemibulbium, which showed multiple lesions
In addition, there was an area of poorly defined T2-hyperintense limits in the posterior hemispheres of both cerebellar hemispheres after contrast administration, compatible with area of certis.
Diagnosis Bilateral rhombencephalitis and multiple abscesses in the posterior fossa.
Treatment and evolution Given that clinical data began and indicated the existence of active romencephaloitis, probably due to Lis, ampicilin, cefoxime, gentamicin and dexamethasone were administered.
Reinterrupting the patient, he said he had eaten kebab the night before the onset of the clinical picture.
Subsequently, from the Microbiology Department of the reference hospital, we were informed that two hemocultives Lis had been isolated in their respective jobs.
The patient was successfully treated.
Twelve days after the procedure, the examination showed only residual involvement of the left cranial nerve, paresthesia in the third branch of the right cranial nerve, mild involvement of the right hypoglossal nerve, and minimal remission of right cerebellar signs.
Therefore, the patient was discharged to complete oral treatment with linezolid and rifampicin.
Finally, the diagnosis in this patient was brain listeriosis after ingestion of kebab.
