Anamnesis A 57-year-old patient without drug allergies, former smoker for 20 years, in whom the following personal history stood out: spontaneous pneumothorax in 1992, lumbosciatalgia at the L4-L5 level with some transient alteration.
Traffic accident for year and a half without sequelae and varicocele intervention in childhood.
She did not take any treatment on a regular basis.
He came to the emergency department with a clinical picture of five days of evolution of shortening in the right upper limb that progressively affected the entire hemibody, associated with clumsiness of the left upper limb.
She reported not▁perceiving hot water in the right hemibody.
An urgent (normal) cranial computed tomography was performed, and the possibility of admission for study was commented, but she refused it due to her family situation, although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was requested only in the skull.
Forty-eight hours later, the patient returned to the emergency room due to progression of the clinical picture, with greater sensitivity and greater weakness in the left upper limb, presenting at this time at admission.
Physical examination revealed no relevant findings.
Neurological examination showed preserved cortical functions, normal cranial nerves.Motor: paresis of the left upper limb with distal predominance (3+ distal, with predominant involvement of the interosseous, 4+ in the proximal forearm and proximal muscles).
Location: lower limbs present, bicipital osteotendinous, stimulatory style in left tricipital exalted with increased reflex area in the left upper limb and present reflex normokinetic in the right upper limb.
RCPFB.
Feasibility: diminished epiphytic in the right upper limb, predominantly in C5, C6 with a deficit from C4-C5 dermatome to D10-D12 right.
Decreased thermal sensitivity in the right upper limb and right chest to dermatome D10-D
Vibratory viability was abolished in the left upper limb and preserved in the rest of the body.
Self-limiting, mildly decreased in the upper left limb (objective to take your hand to the tip of your nose with your eyes closed, but correctly identifying finger position)
No dysmetria or dysdiadochokinesia.
Romberg negative.
Normally preserved gait and preserved tandem.
▁Complementary tests • Blood analysis: hepatic, lipid, renal profile, thyroid hormones normal.
Coagulation and blood count were normal.
Normal complement study.
Immunological study: ANA, ANCA, anti-ENA, anti-DNA, anti-phospholipid, anti-thyroid drugs: negative.
• Serology: hepatitis B and C virus, cytomegalovirus, human immunodeficiency virus, Brucella, lees and Borrelia negative.
Tumor markers were negative.
Angiotensin converting enzyme 68 μg/l.
• Chest radiography and cranial computed tomography: no significant findings.
• Cranial MRI: there was a white matter lesion in both cerebral hemispheres with periventricular predominance that did not enhance with contrast, hypointense on T1 and hyperintense on FLAIR sequences.
• Cervical MRI: lesion in the left hemimedulla predominantly in the white matter with level C2-C3, scarce edema and without bleeding, which enhanced with gadolinium homogeneously, hyperintense in FLA2.
• Visual and auditory evoked potentials: delayed conduction in bilateral visual pathways.
Auditory pathway: normal and symmetrical.
• Central motor conduction (CMC): data on spinal cord involvement that were especially expressed in the left upper limb and to a lesser extent (in the left lower limbs limits) in the lower limbs (normally steroid in the lower limb).
The somatosensory pathways were normal from the lower limbs and moderately normal from the upper limbs.
• Cerebrospinal fluid: opening pressure of 15 cm H2O, 0 cells, glucose 57 (normal between 40-70) and protein 61 (normal if <30),▁adenosine deaminase negative, microbiological study (normal if <30).
cryptococcal, gram acid-resistant bacilli, culture negative
Normal serum immunoglobulins with IgG index of 0.45 (normal between 0-0.7).
Diagnosis Cervical myelitis, presenting as Brown-Sequard syndrome of probable demyelinating etiology.
Sagittal plane in T2 sequence with widening of the cervical cord due to hyperintense lesion in the C2-C3 region.
Treatment and evolution The patient was re-history for other possible episodes of neurological focality, referring only alteration of sensitivity and strength on one occasion in the right lower limb while he was re-admitted to physical therapy associated with non-choking low back pain.
Then, a dorsolumbar MRI was performed, without evidence of lesions, objectifying only a posterolateral discal hernia L3-L4 that partially occluded the conjuncture hole.
During admission, the therapeutic attitude was the initial one waiting for the complementary tests, progressing clinically with greater intensity of already existing gradual observation and motor symptoms, without affecting new territories.
Once demyelinating lesions were evident, she was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone 1 g/day for three days, with partial improvement (certain residual sensory deficit in the right upper limb) and the patient was discharged.
Currently, a new cranial MRI is pending to continue the study of demyelinating disease (see discussion).
