Consultation visit Patient who came to primary care consultation for presenting for approximately one month a picture characterized by paresthesias, dysesthesias and muscle spasm from knees to distal level of lower limbs, especially in twins.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) 51-year-old male with a personal history of chronic low back pain, venous insufficiency in lower limbs, smoker 1 pack/day, drinker 1 – packet
As usual treatment, she takes Sertraline 100mg/24h and Omeprazole 20mg/24h.
She consulted due to paresthesia, dysesthesia and muscle cramps in the lower limbs, predominantly in twins, which had evolved for one month.
In successive primary care consultations, symptoms progressed and have extended to the territory of the median nerve of the left hand despite analgesic and adjuvant treatment.
Systematic observation Good general condition, eupneic at rest, normohydrated and normocolored, conscious, oriented and collaborating.
Cardiorespiratory arrest: rhythmic tones without murmurs, frictions or extracts.
The vesicular murmur was preserved without pathological noises.
Abdomen: blando e depresible without fixation of masses or enlargement.
Painless fixation
No peritoneal defense.
Neurological ex: normoreactive isochoric pupils, no alteration of cranial nerves, no loss of strength or tone, paresthesias and increased painful sensitivity in both lower limbs.
No dysmetria.
Romberg negative.
Normal gait.
Little livedo reticularis with cutaneous involvement at the lower limbs was reported as venous insufficiency.
Pedestrian preserved
Abolition of OTR here and exalted left style style, normal rest.
▁Complementary tests from primary care were performed analytical with normal blood count.
Biochemistry with mild alteration of GGT (88 U/L) and CPK (281 mcg/L).
Iones were normal.
Serology for syphilis negative.
B12 and folic acid within normal limits.
Thyroid hormones were normal.
A lumbar radiograph where no pathological images were observed was also performed.
The persistence of symptoms and the poor response to hygienic-dietetic measures, analgesia and adjuvants is decided to refer the case to the specialist for analytical expansion and complementary tests.
The laboratory tests showed normal blood count.
Biochemistry: Lead 135 mg/L (N 70 – Creatinine < 40mcg/dL), Abbred 135 mg/L (N 70 – Creatinine 182 46 mg/dL), Mild CFU/dL 140 mg/dL (6.8mL – RFU/dL), CFU/dL [6.8 mL]
24H urine: Creatinine, Calcium, phosphate and urate within normal limits.
Porphyrins were normal.
Immunology: Immunofixation: monoclonal component in normal serum.
Autoimmunity: IgA, IgM, IgG, ANA, antiMPO, antiPR3, negative glomerular basement membrane.
HCV RNA 245 (Positive 1b) viral load
Serology: (Anti-HBc) core HB negative, Anti-HCV positive, Anti-HIV 1/2 negative.
Proteinogram: total proteins, albumin, globulins within normal limits.
An ENG – EMG of the limbs was also performed, which showed moderate axonal sensory-motor polyneuropathy with sensory predominance in the lower limbs, and a MRI of the skull and lumbar spine that did not show pathological findings.
Diagnosis of HCV liver disease was established with Interferon and Ribavirin therapy.
Despite the correct treatment and after its completion, the patient continues to present the same symptoms, even worsening of symptoms.
Other misconceived diagnoses, such as miscellaneous evolution, are considered different diagnoses and it is then when we realize that our patient has been wearing amalgam blasts for many years, so the heavy metal is again extended
A total blood Mercury of 22 mcg/L (N < 10 mcg/L) and a total urine Mercury of 2 mcg/g creatinine (N < 30 mcg/L) were evidenced.
Once these new findings have been identified, treatment with D – penicillosis 250mg/6h was started and amalgam dental prostheses were removed.
In subsequent analytical controls Mercurio blood level is decreasing and we found a significant clinical improvement.
Family and community approach Independent for BADL.
Married, without children and middle socioeconomic status.
He has a job in a printing workstation.
Clinical judgement (listed problems, differential diagnosis) Diagnosis: Chronic mercury poisoning and HCV liver disease.
Differential diagnosis: venous insufficiency, anemia, cause or other toxic substances (such as cerebral palsy, syphilis episodes of agama...), ionic alterations, differential diagnosis of polyneuropathy (TD, multiple or other abnormalities...)
The plan of action and evolution of treatment with D – Penicillium persisted with the patient presenting progressive improvement, less cramps, improvement of the sensitivity of the yema of the fingers and feet, only hypergesia normalized.
Later, in consultation reviews, she had experienced an increase in symptoms as sprouts, and in control analytical it was possible to observe a new increase in mercury levels, so Penicillamine D has had to return to treatment.
In addition, after treatment with Interferon and Ribavirin, the viral load has been confirmed as negative.
