Anamnesis A 45-year-old male patient came to the Emergency Department for urology consultations, where he had been 48 hours before with a clinical picture of acute epididymitis.
The patient reported a left testicular mass of 72 hours of evolution, not painful and accompanied by fever of up to 38 oC.
Physical examination revealed an extraordinarily hard, non-painful tumor located in the upper pole and the epididymis of the left testicle, about 2 cm in diameter.
Additional tests • Complete blood count, biochemistry and coagulation within normal limits.
• Urgent ultrasound was compatible with the first clinical suspicion of epididymitis, but the failure to resolve the inflammatory condition within 7 days made it necessary to repeat the directed imaging test, under the clinical suspicion of testicular hypervascularity.
• Tumor markers (beta-HCG, AFP and LDH) were negative.
• The study was completed with an abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan showing retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy in number and size pathological.
Diagnosis In view of the results, a malignant testicular tumor was proposed as the first diagnostic possibility, with the consequent indication of radical orchiectomy.
Treatment A left radical orchiectomy via inguinal approach with high cord clamping was performed for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
The surgery was uneventful and the patient was discharged 24 hours later.
Ev and extension of testicular biopsy demonstrated the presence of a pseudotumoral inflammation, formed mainly by plasma cells, with some lymphocytes and marked areas of fibrosis, with foci of obliterative endarteritis
Median immunohistochemistry revealed a very dense presence of spirochete bacteria (Treponematidlidum).
The set of findings was conclusive of syphilis (syphilitic orchitis).
There was also a destruction of germinal cells in the areas close to the lesion, with focal granulomatous reaction, in which spirochetes were also isolated.
The patient confirmed a posteriori his homosexuality as a risk factor for transmission.
A serological test was performed to rule out the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases, all of them negative, except obviously serology linked to syphilitic disease.
Subsequently, recommendations on the transmission of syphilis were made, the obligatory declaration of the disease was made to the health authorities and treatment was administered with a weekly intramuscular injection of penicillin G benzathine intramuscular 2.4 million for three weeks, with negative treatment.
Diagnosis Syphilitic Orchitis.
