ANTECE-READ PERS©rez Warszates A 60-year-old male patient with a family history of early ischemic heart disease: a 48-year-old brother who died of myocardial infarction, a sister with chronic ischemic heart disease since she was 50 years old.
No known drug allergies.
Hypertrichosis with good usual control.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) type 2 treated with oral antidiabetics, with last HbA1c 7% (November 2017).
Probable familial hypercholesterolemia of difficult control.
Chronic ischemic heart disease with completely revascularized multivessel disease and preserved biventricular systolic function.
The first case was in January 2017 with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS) type acute myocardial infarction (AMI) non-Q, with coronary angiography showing a triple-vessel coronary artery disease with severe descending coronary artery lesion.
At discharge echocardiography with preserved systolic function (LVEF 67%) with no segmental changes in▁contractility and analytical with hypercholesterolemia (total cholesterol 200 mg/dl, LDLc 140 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol > 20 mg/dl) despite hemodynamic impairment
High-dose▁acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) treatment was initiated with clinical improvement, and discharge was diagnosed with Dressler syndrome.
A new analytical was also performed with LDL-C 201 mg/dl starting treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg/ezetimibe 10 mg at discharge.
The patient was followed up in outpatient cardiology clinics, with good functional class without angina, and good compliance with blood pressure control and good glycemic control.
Hypercholesterolemia with marked elevation of LDL-C persists in laboratory tests.
Other surgical interventions: meniscopathy.
BACKGROUND A 60-year-old patient followed up in outpatient cardiology clinics since previous admission for AMI undergoing surgical revascularization.
The patient reported good clinical status, with no angina or exertional dyspnea after discharge.
She denied orthopnea or episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.
She reported having completed the cardiac rehabilitation program and having a routine life without limitations.
Go to the consultation for results collection.
PHYSICAL EXPLORATION Good general condition.
Aware, oriented.
Well hydrated and infused.
Eupneic at rest.
SatO2 98% without medication.
High blood pressure (hypertension), cough, heart rate (HR) 70
Do not jugular engorgement.
Heart attack: rhythmic, very often.
No audible murmurs or extracts.
The vesicular murmur was conserved, with no pathological noises added.
Lower limbs: no edema or signs of deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
Distal walls preserved
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES ECG (April 2018): sinus rhythm at 70 bpm, normal axis, normal PR, narrow QRS, Q wave in III and aVF with negative QTc in other ischemia and aVL
Echocardiogram (April 2018): undilated left ventricle without hypertrophy of its walls.
Left atrium mild stenosis.
Thoracic aorta was normal.
No significant valvular heart disease.
The left ventricular systolic function was preserved, with a LVEF calculated by Simpson BP of 67%, without segmental▁contractility disorders.
Transmitral filling pattern of relaxation alteration without increased filling pressures.
Inferior vena cava did not show adequate inspiratory collapse.
No pericardial effusion.
Analytical (April 2018): Blood count: leukocytes 8,100 units, hemoglobin 13.4 g/dl, platelets 339,000 units.
Biochemistry: 0.84 mg/dl Cr normal, hepatobiliary profile normal.
HbA1c 7.0% Lipid profile: total cholesterol 345 mg/dl, LDLc 278 mg/dl, HDL 52 mg/dl, triglycerides 75 mg/dl.
Analytical (June 2018, after starting alirocumab): Blood count: leukocytes 9,100 units, hemoglobin 13.9 g/dl, platelets 280,000 units.
Biochemistry: 0.90 mg/dl Cr normal, hepatobiliary profile normal.
HbA1c 6.9%.
Lipid profile: total cholesterol 147 mg/dl, LDLc 78 mg/dl, HDL 55 mg/dl, triglycerides 72 mg/dl.
▁CLINICAL EVOLUTION The patient comes to the consultation for the collection of results, referring to having a good clinical situation.
She denied myalgia with statin treatment at high doses, but reported concern about very difficult cholesterol control due to her personal and family history.
It is a good treatment compliant, with good control of blood pressure and blood glucose levels at home, as well as recommended hygienic-dietetic measures.
The control laboratory tests showed an optimal persistence of hypercholesterolemia, with total cholesterol in 345 mg/dl and LDL-c in 278 mg/dl despite treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg/ezetimibe 10 mg range.
The patient went back to the review in June 2018, denying having presented any adverse reactions after starting treatment.
Control laboratory tests showed a total cholesterol of 147 mg/dl with LDL-C levels of 78 mg/dl.
DIAGNOSIS Chronic ischemic heart disease with multivessel disease completely revascularized surgically and preserved left ventricular systolic function.
Probable familial hypercholesterolemia of very difficult control.
Hypertrichosis and type 2 diabetes mellitus with good control.
