Background: The interpretation of ECG and clinical context are key for diagnosis and subsequent treatment.
A 31-year-old woman with mental illness attended at the Cardiology Department of the Hospital Central de Asturias due to dizziness, seizures and electrocardiographic abnormalities.
PA: Diclofenac allergy and NOM.
Work in a supermarket.
Cardiovascular risk factors Non-toxic habits.
No hypertension, mixed dyslipidemia (currently discharged by endocrine, treated with simvastatin and fenofibrate did not follow up).
Gestational diabetes treated with insulin Lispro 25/75: 12 units in the morning, 10 units in the evening.
No previous cardiac history.
Hepatic steatosis.
Hernia discal.
Breast reduction intervention.
Current illness The patient comes to her referral hospital with a 24-hour history of dizziness in relation to standing.
The symptoms improve with decubitus.
No chest pain, no dyspnoea.
Episodes of occasional hospitalizations.
She suffered a catarrhal episode the previous days.
ECG showed wide QRS tachycardia at 180 bpm.
Vagal manoeuvres were performed which were ineffective and 6 and 12 mg of▁adenosine were prescribed without response so it was derived to our center.
No baseline ECG was available.
On arrival to our center the patient is asymptomatic and hemodynamically stable.
Physical location AT: 110/75 mmHg.
HR: 188 bpm.
Sat O2: 98% without medication.
Aware, oriented, cooperative.
hydrated and normal color.
AP: vesicular murmur conserved without other sounds added.
CA: rhythmic cardiac sounds with mitral SS III/IV with normal S2.
Abdomen: 33 weeks pregnant.
Breast scarring
LL: no edema, no signs of DVT.
COMPLEMENTARY PRBCES Blood count: Hb 12.5g/dl, MCV 82.6 fL, leukocytes12500 uL (normal formula), platelets 239000 uL.
Biochemistry: glucose 125mg/dl, urea 17 mg/dl, creatinine 0.61 mg/dl, sodium 135 mg/dl, CK 56 U/L, troponin T 33 ng/L.
Coagulation: TP 87%, INR 1.09, fibrinogen 686, D-dipsia 1187 ng/ml.
ECG Transthoracic echocardiography: study performed at 160 bpm.
LV was not dilated, non-hypertrophic, hypercontractile, with no changes in regional▁contractility.
Preserved LVEF, no dilatation of right cavities.
Moderate mitral regurgitation.
EVOLUTION We decided to admit the patient to the Advanced Cardiac Care Unit for monitoring and treatment.
Vagal manoeuvres and▁adenosine 6 and 12 mg both were repeated without success.
4 mg of intravenous atenol were prescribed without response, so it was decided to perform electrical cardioversion (ECV).
The case is discussed with the Departments of Endocrinology and Anesthesiology and two ECV (100 and 200J) are performed under maternal sedation with propofol and fetal monitoring that are unsuccessful.
Fetal distress is not observed at any time.
The patient remains asymptomatic and hemodynamically stable at all times.
The monitoring showed persistence of wide QRS tachycardia (morphismal vs. ECG on arrival) at similar frequencies (170-190 bpm).
The persistence of the arrhythmia was decided to start treatment with infusion of beta-blockers (labetalol at 20 ml/h) and an ampoule of 0.5 mg of intravenous digoxin.
Initially, the frequency of tachycardia was reduced, around 150 bpm, with a progressively more frequent presence of sinus beats, which were inter-warmed in the arrhythmia, followed by trigeminism (visualization in telemetry).
After a few hours, sinus rhythm persists with isolated ventricular extrasystole.
At 12 hours after the start of the infusion after several hours in stable sinus rhythm, the infusion of beta-blockers is stopped, and the patient's ECG is shown in Figure 2.
The patient reported only gastroesophageal reflux disease and oral ranitindin was prescribed if necessary.
After 8 more hours of monitoring with persistence of sinus rhyme, it was decided to transfer the patient to the cardiology ward and repeat TTE.
The patient remains hospitalized for 48 more hours and after finding that there are no gynecological complications and remains asymptomatic with ECG recording in sinus rhythm without changes, it is decided to discharge with prophylactic treatment with metropolol pending ambulatory consultation section Arritmia.
Percutaneous closure was performed in all cases. Complications were not identified in any type of pregnancy, so outpatient follow-up was decided as planned.
DIAGNOSIS must be solved by the contestant through the interpretation of the ECG.
