Consultation note: A 29-year-old patient came to the referral center from the MHC of the area due to the consumption of hachís and cocaine and for▁refusing to receive the prescribed psychopharmacological treatment.
Family history No pathologies of interest.
Personal history - isolation without interest.
- Psychiatric: 1.
Pattern of desadaptive behaviors, with problems of integration, acceptance of social norms, as well as oppositionist conducts, self-defident and even self- and above all hetero-aggressive forms of contraception, marginalized police, poor school performance,
I'm trying to get psychological treatment that you don't come to.
2.
Several hospitalizations in an acute care unit with the following diagnoses: antisocial personality disorder, drug dependence and psychosis-like crisis due to cocaine dependence (2005), and the same diagnoses in bipolar manapse (2005), antisocial personality disorder and personality disorder.
It has been treated with various neuropathies, anticholinesterase agents and lithium, which are only maintained during hospitalization.
3.
Multiple psychiatric and psychological outpatient care without follow-up.
4.
Toxic: onset of cannabis use at 16 years of age with doses higher than 10 servings/day.
At 17 years of age, she began suffering abuse of an amphibians, ecstasy and cocaine.
At the age of 25, she abandons the use of other drugs except cannabis, which is maintained in the same doses except for short periods of 2-3 months of abstinence after the income.
When she came to the center she had a cannabis consumption of 1 g/day and 4-6 "Red Bulls"/day.
History of the disease is the largest of two brothers, of structured middle class family, both working parents, involved in the life of the child.
Until adolescence, she reported having had no problems in daycare and school, being a restless,▁intelligent and somewhat undisciplined child.
At 16 years of age, cannabis use begins and in COU it goes through different schools due to school failure, behavioral alterations and hachism trafficking.
At the age of 18, she abandons the studies and performs an autolytic gesture that relates to the situation of school failure.
It begins to integrate into a marginal world and triggers the consumption of toxics, adding to the cannabis, the ecstasy, in a few bursts and cocaine, appearing behavioral alterations,▁aggressiveness and aggression important months,
Upon leaving prison, he resumes his life, identifying himself with the delinquent world and extending from being in war against society.
Cannabis and cocaine consumption begins again, with psychomotor restlessness, high aggression and mystical delusional megalomaniac ideas appearing. The patient was admitted to the emergency room after being taken by the police (first year 2000).
After discharge from hospital, the patient presented a normal behavior.
On leaving the hospital, cannabis consumption restarted again.
He starts working in construction and immediately abandons it because he considers it very hard.
Disturbance in the medication and continue to occur about 3 months until he suddenly changes his behavior, according to the parents when he leaves and increases the consumption of cannabis and resumes the aggressive mood.
She was discharged with the same diagnoses and on haloperidol treatment, with suspension of medication again nothing else to go out.
Then he goes to Santander where he remains stable for a year, maintaining a hotel work and later entering a state of isolation "depressive?, without going out to the street, with the persian parents receiving food already down and phobia".
In 2005, they returned to the hospital because they cannot maintain the situation and start to go out again, they restart cannabis use, wrongful behaviours in Madrid, menaces for the police, and attacks for new ideas).
Cannabis dependence, antisocial personality disorder and probable manic-depressive psychosis are diagnosed in this case (this episode does not refer cocaine consumption, with toxicological controls negative to this substance).
After discharge, the patient is treated with lithium and olanzapine and is referred to a therapeutic community, where she remains conscious and stable for 6 months, although with irregular intake of medication, since she takes the medication to the contraceptive.
At discharge (year 2006) he goes back to Santander, presenting for 18 months the same picture of isolation and upon return to Madrid the same picture of behaviors increasingly necessary and violent mother order is repeated.
He performs thefts, starts several courses: renewable▁energies, driver cards, courses that don't exist... he doesn't need to walk around, he wants to ride a company, all his belongings: clothes, keys, 2008
At discharge, she refuses to go to the Mental Health Center because she has had an episode of acute dystonia following the administration of the neurodependent depot, and does not consider that she has any psychiatric illness, although she does acknowledge her problem of consumption
Loving a relationship and not coming to the center The patient was a collaborator, with a seated, oriented, verborrheic aspect, with an expansive spirit, but capable of life in relation to "I want to make other people aggressive
He presented a basic bizarre ideation related to the marginal world in which he had unfolded, he recognized "go against society for not liking me and this pleases me".
There is no awareness of psychiatric illness and partial about the consumption of toxic substances which is currently 6-8 "sows"/day and 6 "Red Bull".
He wished to quit the meal on the day of his birthday, so that he could again take it when the sheep were removed.
Valuing the patient's history and poor adherence to treatment, as well as the lack of awareness of the problem, we set out to prioritize the creation of a good therapeutic bond and achieve abstinence from toxic drugs, to try later
At present, she has been receiving medication for a month, is denied, but maintains a stable mood and has been able to start a renewable energy course with good use.
All our work desire goes beyond awareness of the psychiatric problem and the ease of reporting toxic reactions to this consumption, as well as the need for pharmacological treatment, which begins to admit due to the fact that it has to lead,
Diagnostic Judgment Axis I: Disability of cannabis.
Cocaine abuse
Induced maniform seizures versus bipolar disorder.
Axis II: Antisocial personality disorder.
