A 60-year-old male with a history of active smoking of 20 cigarettes/day, hypertension treated with ramiprile and nasal basal cell carcinoma underwent complete resection.
The patient had no other associated pathologies.
The current picture begins abruptly when, previously asymptomatic, suffers a self-limiting crisis with tonic-clonic movements of right limbs and posterior post-critical state.
She was admitted to the emergency department of the Rio Tinto referral hospital where a head computed tomography (CT) was performed, revealing lesions suggestive of brain metastasis.
On the floor, the patient presented normal superior functions, oriented in time and space and with coherent language.
There was no campimetry deficit or cranial nerves alterations.
Normal motor balance and deep and superficial sensitivity.
bilateral plantar flexor cutaneous flap.
Afebrile, blood pressure 120/60.
Eupneic at rest.
Upon auscultation, the patient was rhythmic without murmurs, and vesicular murmur was preserved.
The abdomen is blade, with conserved noises without masses or enlargements, residual tricles or adenopathy.
In the lower extremities bilateral symmetrical pulses and preserved without edema, without signs of DVT, with the presence of ochre macular lesions not raised in a dispersed way.
The most relevant biochemical data were: blood glucose 125 mg/dl, creatinine 1.15 mg/dl, urea 66 mg/dl, proteins 5 gr/dl, and in the blood count: 0.270 normal leukocytes/μl normal platelets 234 μl with normal platelets/μl
Cranial CT showed well-defined left parietal lesions the largest of them 14 mm and a cystic lesion in the left frontal lobe suggestive of neoplasic origin.
A brain MRI showed a cystic lesion in the upper left frontal lobe with extensive area of perilesional edema, suggestive of metastatic lesion without ruling out other diagnostic possibilities.
The suspicion of the origin requested an extension study by means of computerized axial tomography demonstrated the presence of irregular nodular thickening, irregular, adjacent nodular pleural effusion, small nodular pleural effusion, metaplastic left,
The coexistence of cerebral LOE, lung mass and smoking history suggested the diagnosis of lung carcinoma with brain metastasis, so we decided to approach the pulmonary lesion.
A CT-guided biopsy of the lung lesion was performed and a subsequent pathological study was performed without demonstrating the presence of a primary tumor.
For this reason she was referred to the neurosurgery department of our hospital (H.U.
Virgen del Rocío) for biopsy and pathological study since the lung biopsy had been negative.
Finally, the patient underwent surgery with the objective of complete resection of the lesion due to the high suspicion of neoplasia.
A left frontal craniotomy was performed, observing a mucoidized tumor with numerous cystic formations that was completely removed.
Samples were sent to pathology and microbiology.
Differential diagnosis MRI and cranial CT are the first diagnostic step for the detection and characterization of expansive intracranial lesions.
Brain metastases are the most common intracranial tumors.
Its diagnosis is usually facilitated by the presence of a primary tumor although up to one third of brain metastases is unknown.
In our case, lung cancer with brain metastasis was the first option, both because of a history of smoking habit and because of brain metastasis, which is more frequently diagnosed by simultaneous CT of the▁thorax and the LOEstat.
However, CT-guided biopsy of the pulmonary lesion did not allow the diagnosis of histological confirmation.
Other metastatic tumors to consider were melanoma (in our case the patient had a basal cell carcinoma), digestive and genitourinary tract tumors, although the patient did not have any data that would suggest an extension of these last two.
After the negative extension study, other diagnostic possibilities had to be considered, such as primary CNS tumors (the glioma group is the most frequent intraparenchymal level), infectious pathology and systemic inflammatory processes.
Among the infectious causes, abscesses of bacterial origin, infections caused by cerebral hydatid disease and neurocysticercosis stand out for their frequency, as well as infections caused by this type of infection, although in this patient there was no etiology.
In all of them the final diagnosis requires histological study of the lesion that can be obtained by sterotactic puncture (with less morbidity) or by complete resection of the lesion, as occurred in our case when malignancy was suspected.
Final diagnosis The pathological study showed absence of metastasis and signs of malignancy ruling out the neoplasic origin of the lesion.
In the pathological anatomy samples numerous rounded morphology structures were observed, ranging from 4 to 15 mm diameter, whose wall showed PAS positive staining, Grouca neoansform alcian, compatible with Cry.
Cryptococcus neoformans was reported as Cryptococcus in aerobic culture medium.
The final diagnosis was cryptococcal brain abscess (cryptomatoma) in an immunocompetent patient with a pulmonary nodule presumably of the same etiology.
After surgical intervention, the patient presented a good initial clinical evolution, but later suffered progressive neurological deterioration with decreased level of consciousness and aphasia.
Lumbar puncture was performed to obtain normal fluid, with cultures, Chinese ink and latex negative to cryptococci.
The CT scan showed a focal lesion compatible with a brain abscess, being reoperated with excision of the abscess.
Microbiological study showed the presence of Klebsiella pneumoniae.
After the intervention and antibiotic therapy the patient presented excellent clinical evolution and complete resolution without further complications.
The patient was finally discharged after completing 6 weeks of treatment with liposomal amphotericin B and flucytosine, and then continued outpatient treatment with 800 mg of fluconazole daily for 6 months.
After the end of treatment the patient remains asymptomatic with an excellent quality of life without associated neurological deficit.
