Male, 2 years and 6 months.
Previously healthy.
Well fed.
Good growth.
Good neuropsychological development.
Schooled.
He received the corresponding vaccines according to the country's Schematic Certificate.
She had repeated skin infections diagnosed as secondary impécision to insect bites and scratching, these infections were treated with antibioticotopic therapy.
The current disease begins 3 days prior to admission with a fever of up to 39.7oC, partial rejection of food, decay and tendency to sleep.
Partial seizure with secondary generalization.
She was admitted with a diagnosis of probable central nervous system (CNS) infection.
On physical examination, the patient was awful, febrile, and hemoglobin O2 saturation (SatO2) was measured with a 98% pulse oximeter and a free flow mask.
No polypnea, no respiratory function.
Good bilateral air inlet, without rales.
Heart rate 130 cpm, well hit sounds without murmurs.
Paths present.
Background.
Well infused.
Numerous imperforate lesions in the lower limbs▁predominate, some in the crusted stage, other meliserical and psychiatric disorders than others.
Psychoneuromucular nosigns meningeal, tone and conserved forces, no motor deficit.
Location: Osteotendinous and symmetrical present in the four limbs.
Initial analysis: hemoglobin (Hb) 12.7 g/dL, leukocytosis (GB) 14,100 elements/mm3, 78% polymorphonuclear (PMN), platelets 257,000 elements/mm3.
C-reactive protein (CRP)51.3 mg/l.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF): GB 50 /mm3 (PMN), normal proteinorrhachia and glucorrhachia.
A CSF bacteriological study was performed and investigation of viral agents of meningoencephalitis was requested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Electroencephalogram (EEG) was performed in the first 48 hours after onset of the disease.
The patient was admitted to the pediatric ward and started treatment with ceftriaxone and fixed doses.
He persists with a tendency to sleep, irritable, rest tachycardia.
Adds new lesions in palms and soles and by neurological compromise enters intermediate care (ICP).
Patient admission: Glasgow Coma Scale (GSC) 15, irritable, SatO297% air.
Apyretic, a pustular indurated lesion on the anterior face of the right hemithorax, other lesions already mentioned.
Sinus tachycardia 167 cpm, no murmurs, normotensive, full pulses, recoloration time (RT) less than 2 seconds.
Good air inlet, no rales.
Not stiff neck or trunk
No motor deficit.
Treatment was continued and vancomycin was added.
Laboratory tests showed an increase in CRP264 mg/dl, leukocytosis 4,600 elements/mm3, platelet count 103,000 elements/mm3, mobilization of liver enzymes: AST 87 U/L, ALT 88 U/mm.
Normal glomerular renal function.
Skin and hemocultive lesions develop methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA), with CSF culture and PCR for Herpes virus negative.
A few hours after admission, an intense systolic murmur in the mesocardium was observed.
Establishment of a diagnosis of probable infectious endocarditis with embolization is performed Doppler echocardiography that reports "in mitral valve thickening of both valves with small image attached to the septal valve compatible with vegetation.
Mild to moderate mitral regurgitation.
Good systolic function".
Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMMRI) shows: "lesional anomalies compatible with septic embolism with moderate perilesional edema".
Other foci of embolism are ruled out.
Treatment with vancomycin and gentamicin was maintained in therapeutic range.
During the evolution, a consultation was made with a pediatric cardiac surgery team that initially maintains an expectant behavior regarding the surgical approach, with serial controls with echocardiogram.
You get apyrexy on day 17 of treatment.
Echocardiograms show worsening of mitral regurgitation and persistence of vegetations.
Reitera embolisation with left hemiplegia performed a new MRI that confirmed ischemic infarction in a putamen zone.
▁Evaluated in conjunction with neuroallergy and cardiocirrhagia, it was decided to perform cardiac surgery to clean the valve, trying to repair the defect with a failing pericardium with a mechanical valve and hypocoagulated.
Blockade requiring external atrioventricular septal defect for 15 days, then resuming sinus rhyme.
Good evolution, with improvement of hemiparesis with physiotherapy.
