This is a Spanish patient, a medical practitioner, who consults for fever upon return from a trip to Ethiopia.
Among the personal history, only 10 cigarettes/day were smokers, and two episodes several years before acute pyelonephritis.
Previously to this trip, he had been on two occasions in Nepal (2 and 3 years before) who had attended without incident.
Forty days before the date of the first consultation he had returned from a trip scheduled by Ethiopia with a guide, along with 13 other nationalist excursioners.
They visited mainly rural areas practicing senderism by Simiens mountains in the Gondar area north of the country.
As risk activities carried out during the journey, the consumption of unbottled water and local dairy products stood out, she walked▁barefoot on the ground, had contact with animals (breeds, cows and dogs).
The patient came one month before travel to the International Vaccination Service.
He underwent chemoprophylaxis against malaria with atovacuona-proguanil and was already correctly vaccinated against HAV, HBV, tetanus, typhoid trips and fever previously performed.
A week after returning from this trip, she began with dry cough, fever of up to 39.5oC, chills and generalized arthromyalgias, which treated with paracetamol, ibuprofen and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for 6 days.
Subsequently, the patient presented again with high fever, headache and severe asthenia.
The last days she also begins with abdominal pain like cravings and pasty stools without pathological products.
Between the two febrile periods he presented pruritic▁papules in both lower limbs that disappeared spontaneously in a few days.
On physical examination, the patient was in good general condition, with TA: 110/60mmHg, normal-colored and eupneic.
No lymphadenopathy or cutaneous lesions were observed.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation was normal, and the abdomen showed mild generalized hypersensitivity to deep hypothermia, with no apparent visceromegaly.
The rest of the examination was strictly normal.
On the first visit, the following complementary examinations were requested: • Blood count: Leukocytes 7,810 (57% neutrophils, 23% lymphocytes, 16%▁eosinophils -1,250 Eosinophils/mm3-.
); Hb 13.8 mg/dL; Hto 41.9%; HCM 25.3; VCM 77; Platelets 200,000/mm3.
• Biochemistry: ALT 56 IU/L, AST 32 Ul/L, GGT 96 Ul/L, FA 116 IU/L, C-reactive protein (CRP) 14.1 mg/dL, Ig E 67
• Urine coagulation and sediment: normal.
• Blood smears, rapid diagnosis test and PCR of malaria: negative.
• Search strategy for urine and stool concentration techniques.
• Blood culture: negative.
• Chest and abdominal X-ray: no abnormalities.
• Abdominal ultrasound: unchanged.
Differential diagnosis In summary, it is a 46-year-old woman, without relevant previous diseases, who consulted for a prolonged fever, dry cough, generalized arthromyalgias and abdominal pain a week after traveling to river.
She had received malaria prophylaxis and was correctly vaccinated.
In the general analysis, the only striking data were the presence of peripheral fever and a slight elevation in liver tests.
The differential diagnosis in this patient should be based on fever after return of a tropical region.
The first microbiological studies were negative, as well as the imaging tests requested.
The clinical picture of this patient is quite nonspecific, although it suggests an infectious etiology.
In this sense, its epidemiological history and the diagnosis of parasitic infection are essential.
Fever is one of the main reasons for consultation after traveling to a tropical area.
The origin of fever varies markedly according to the geographical area.
In patients who return from Sub-Saharan Africa, as in our case, the most common cause and the first entity that is ruled out due to its potential severity is malaria.
In our case, the studies performed (blood smears, rapid diagnostic test and PCR for malaria) were negative.
Table 1 describes the most common diseases acquired after traveling to this region according to the transmission mechanism.
However, it should always be borne in mind that travelers can acquire other infections that have a global distribution, such as influenza, infectious mononucleosis, HIV infection, viral hepatitis, tuberculosis, brucellosis, and Q2.
As regards eosinophil count, it is defined as the presence in peripheral blood of more than 500▁eosinophils/mm3.
It may be due to pharmacological causes, hypersensitivity reactions, non-allergic immune diseases,▁neoplasms, endocrine-metabolic diseases, parasitic and non-parasitic infections such as leprosy virus infection mycospora is certain forms of human immunodeficiency (HIV).
In the case of our patient who comes from a tropical region, infection by▁parasites is the most frequent cause, and like imported fever, it depends on the risk activities the patient carries out during the journey5.
Change filariasis on site is a risk factor for acquiring certain schistosomiasis and uncinaria; being in contact with freshwater for acquiring schistosomiasis; etc.
In cases where the disease is located, the etiology is specifically associated with the invasion and migration of tissues, with the degree of peripheral compromise being proportional to the extent of tissue invasion.
Table 2 describes the main imported parasitic infections that can cause dengue.
In addition to the aforementioned complementary tests, serology was requested for Brucella, rickettsial diseases, colitis, schistosoma and urticaria, which were negative.
On the first visit, and after receiving the initial analytical results in which acute onset appeared, compatible symptoms and epidemiological history of freshwater baths in an endemic area of schistosomiasis was performed.
The patient was treated with praziquantel 40 mg/Kg for 3 days and simultaneously prednisone 30 mg/day for 5 days.
The patient contacted the travelmates.
Three of them, English, had similar symptoms (fever country, dry cough and abdominal pain), as well as the Romanian nationality guideline that was admitted to a hospital.
A few days later, they informed our patient that in the three English patients Schistosoma mansoni eggs were isolated in▁faeces.
A Spanish travel partner contacted us with the patient and although he was asymptomatic, he was referred for evaluation with negative initial study (analytical, serology, stools and urine).
The patient presented a favorable clinical picture, with disappearance of fever, pulmonary and gastrointestinal symptoms, as well as analytically, with a decrease in CRP and normalization of liver enzymes in subsequent follow-up.
A second dose of praziquantel (40 mg/kg 3 days) was administered at 4 weeks.
Controls performed on feces and urine samples in successive visits were negative, and repeated Schistosoma serology on two more occasions was also negative.
The Spanish travel partner had a seroconversion of Schistosoma serology at 4 months, receiving treatment with praziquantel at that time.
The patient, like all her colleagues, had bathed in rivers in the area, which is the mechanism of transmission of schistosomiasis, already larvae or cercariae of water and healthy skin penetrate through the skin.
The clinical picture presented is similar to that of other excursionists who isolated the eggs described in feces.
Therefore, the patient was diagnosed with acute schistosomiasis or Katayama syndrome or fever.
Final diagnosis Katayama fever (acute schistosomiasis).
