A 23-year-old male who attended the Center for Comprehensive Care for Drug Addicted People (CAID) with the intention of abandoning cannabis "because he wants to have his brain in all his time" and does not.
There is nothing to be mentioned in the family history.
Personal history In early childhood she had important medical problems due to urinary pain caused by ureters with renal involvement, which resolved at the age of three years but which forced her to need an external pouch collector.
Amblyopia was diagnosed and eye occlusion▁patches and glasses were prescribed.
The patient reported that he ended up▁memorizing the letters and figures of the scanners because his goal was not to take a patch or glasses to school.
The patient was discharged with improvement at the age of 12 years.
Currently the patient looks bad with the left eye.
School performance was very good until the age of 14 years in which problems in behavior and performance of studies began at the institute.
Parents consulted a school psychologist who diagnosed that the patient had an intellectual quotient (I.C.)
130 and that problems with school performance were due to the fact that it was "very restless and rebellious".
It was proposed that he studied Social Security but the patient proposed to demonstrate that "it was worth studying" and obtained very good qualifications in the following course, but still behaved improperly in the school environment.
She did not want to prepare selectivity.
At the age of 14, cannabis consumption had started, had tried other substances, and was always related to boys older than him.
History of consumption Between the ages of 14 and 15 years, tobacco, cannabis use and LSD and an affiliates test began.
The consumption of these last two substances is only occasional, some weekend, but takes it until the age of 19 or 20.
He tried cocaine at the age of sixteen, but did not like it, and said he felt bad, although he did not refer paranoid ideas when he consumed it, but said he "he changed it very much".
Also at 15 years old, try alcohol, but do not drink more than two or three drinks the days you leave on weekends.
The patient had requested treatment for a year and a half, with 21 years, also with the intention of abandoning the consumption he considered to produce it produced difficulties to solve the problems his girlfriend, also consuming cannabis and ten years older than him.
He had come to the MHC of his area for the anxious symptomatology he presented, and after complementary tests, including ECG a possible hyperactivity is diagnosed, sertraline and cannabis abuse is recommended and abandonment.
The patient criticized his consumption, stating that it was difficult to make decisions and how to deal with the facts that occurred in his environment.
He contoxicated himself to reduce his consumption to two or three daily servings and abandoned the treatment even though he was aware that he had not achieved his goal of detoxification.
Current state The patient lives with his parents and a sister five years younger than him.
There is good family relationship.
He works half a day to cover his expenses, prepares the selectivity for the second time, studies English without external support, prepares himself to be a professor of self-school, where he sees a professional output in the family sphere and that he can finance his studies.
She has a new girlfriend, also older than him, who does not consume and who she wants to separate.
At the time of consultation, the patient manifests great anxiety, emotional lability without harmony, memory insomnia and manifests as extreme anxiety, crisis of irritation, irritation and devoidability of control in his acts and desire.
It perceives as abnormal the attempt to perform many tasks that does not end because it is not able to concentrate for a long time, but refers that it improves performance if it changes tasks with a certain periodicity.
He does not present delirious ideas of any kind, but obsessive ideas that give him great concern: "I do not think well".
The patient is well aware that his problem is related to cannabis use, but he is unable to detoxify himself, and he even proposes a hospital admission to achieve his goal.
It presents good appearance, care, with slight motor agitation that disappears throughout the conversation.
Language is correct, fluid, spontaneous, with wide vocabulary, good language and expressions of inappropriate conversation not forced; it shows great interest and is very interested in the appreciation of the interlocutor, showing visual contact.
Admit criticism, but mention that it supports incoherence badly.
"He has almost always seen himself different," and does not know whether this is due to his personal characteristics or "way of thinking", the consumption is about 25 grams a week, and he consumes about ten or twelve grams a day.
Smoker of about eight or ten cigarettes.
There are no other consumptions, except in a very specific way that of not more than 50 grams of alcohol some weekend when it leaves and with spirits of mind the anxiety produced by social contact.
She criticizes alcohol consumption and reports that sometimes her mood worsens, as she does not see a solution to drinking, she even perceives it as an attitude of self-aggressiveness.
Ambulatory detoxification with the help of anxiolytics – 5mg is proposed.
Alprazolam retards daily- and 30mg.
My laugh at night.
The patient is able to reduce consumption to two or three daily dog that smokes compulsively in the evening, even if he remains without cannabis smoking two or three days in a row.
Nevertheless, he reported great anxiety accompanied by a vegetative component, intense irritation, obsessive ideas, anorexia, altered intestinal transit, dysthermic sensation and increased tobacco consumption up to twice as much as he smoked.
It improves insomnia and refers to "there is more effortful to reduce it", but there is no abstinence that in the afternoon anxiety is intense, especially related to obsessive ideas about smoking and anxiety symptoms related to self-criticism.
Treatment with risperidone 1mg was proposed.
at noon, and you can keep abstinence more easily because it improves anxiety and it is easier to stop thinking and plan activities outside consumption.
The patient has not yet achieved abstinence for more than a month.
