Anamnesis 46-year-old patient with a personal history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, exadict to parenteral drugs (heroin), positive HIV infection in monotherapy treatment with DRV/r with good control viral portal hypertension (CD4 440
He was admitted to the Infectious Diseases Department in August 2012 due to a clinical picture of progressive weakness and visual alterations associated with deterioration of consciousness.
A normal lumbar puncture, negative serology for syphilis and toxoplasma, herpes simplex PCR 1, 2 and negative varicella were performed.
The infectious origin of the process is ruled out, so we alert to Neurology for evaluation.
Acceptable mental condition: bedridden patient with general condition, well hydrated and perfused, eupneic at rest and speech.
Afebril.
Arterial hypertension 160/100 mmHg.
Weight 85 kg
Aspectococcoid.
Heart attack with rhythmic tones, at a good frequency, without audible murmurs.
The vesicular eruption is preserved with mucus and no pathological noises.
Abdomen blushing, depressible, non-painful to constipation, no palpable masses or enlargement, no signs of peritoneal irritation.
Lower limbs showed no edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Papuloeritis plaques and pruriginous on the trunk.
Neurological instability: good level of consciousness, oriented, emotional lability with tendency to▁crying.
No language disorders.
Left hemianopsia.
Motor balance: upper limbs 5/5.
Left lower limb 5/5.
Global lower right limb 3/5.
There are no clear deficits in tachoalgesic sensitivity.
Failure to recognize toes in the feet
EMR is more alive in the right hemibody.
▁Right extensor CPR, left indifferent.
No dysmetria.
Paretic march.
▁Complementary tests • Analytical: creatinine 1.65 mg/dl AST 47 IU/l, ALT 59 IU/l.
Hemoglobin 12.7 g/dl.
Parameter remnant in normal ranges.
• Electrocardiogram: sinus tachycardia at 100-110 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS with normal axis.
Deep S wave at V2-V3.
rS in III and aVF.
No significant cardiac repolarization disorders.
• Cerebrospinal fluid: normal cellularity, proteinorrhachia of 60 mg/dl, normal rest, including ADA.
• Autoimmunity study (ANA, ANCA) and normal hypercoagulability.
Negative immunoglobulins.
• Serology negative (syphilis, toxoplasma, PCR ESR 1,2 and varicella) except HIV (undetectable viral load) and HCV (viral load > 4,000,000).
• Bilateral intracranial carotid artery arteriography and bilateral vertebral artery: multiple parietal irregularities and stenosis of intracranial arteries in their distal segments that affect both the anterior and posterior circulation.
Also, moderate stenosis in the left P1 segment.
Findings consistent with small vessel vasculitis
An arteriography showed parietal irregularities and stenosis of the distal intracranial arteries, compatible with small vessel vasculitis.
• Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cranial computed tomography (CT): multiple ischemic lesions, some with hemorrhagic transformation, territorial and bilateral, in different stages.
Cranial computed tomography (CT) showed a large cortical bone and multiple bilateral ischemic lesions in different vascular territories.
• Echocardiogram: severe LV hypertrophy with preserved EF.
• Electroencephalogram: fundamental bilateral and symmetrical activity, which shows moderate signs of diffuse brain involvement.
Diagnosis HCV central nervous system vasculitis with negative▁cryoglobulinemia in an HIV-positive patient with HCV.
Treatment During admission, treatment was initiated with cyclophosphamide bolus 750 mg and 3 boluses of 1 g/day of methylprednisolone for 3 days.
Nevertheless, the evolution was torpid.
The patient was admitted to the Neurology Department on December 2012.
He presented new multiple ischemic brain lesions and several episodes of acute myocardial ischemia, receiving conservative medical treatment.
Given the patient's poor neurological status, aggressive HCV treatment was ruled out, which, in addition, due to genotype 1b, would have required more aggressive treatment than usual and with worse results.
Currently, it is in very poor clinical condition, with general conservative measures as the only treatment.
Although it maintains hemodynamic stability, it is disoriented, emits language and comprises simple orders, cortical blindness tendency to proximal, distal, distal, tetraparesis: MSD 2/5 MID 0/5 MSI 0/5
