Anamnesis A 79-year-old woman with a personal history of hypertension under pharmacological treatment, with no other remarkable medical or surgical history.
He was referred to the emergency department by his Primary Care physician for suspected cervical abscess after an arthropod sting, requesting surgical removal.
The patient reported having suffered an urban sprain at the cervical level for 24 hours, with local erythema and intense pruritus observed in the following hours.
She had not applied any previous topical treatment, nor had she recently introduced new drugs.
She reported having a good general condition, but had difficulty sleeping sickness due to pruritus.
Neither the patient nor her family member had observed cervical abnormalities associated with the sting.
In the anamnesis, no other remarkable epidemiological history was found.
Physical examination revealed a good general condition, although a state of nervousness was remarkable, which attributed to pruritus.
In addition, he had a significant elevation in blood pressure (210/120 mmHg), heart rate and baseline oxygen saturation within the normal range.
Fever does not occur.
On cardiac auscultation the patient was diagnosed with unilateral carotid bruit in the right laterocervical area (in which the patient reported having had the sting).
▁Dermatological examination revealed a pulsating circular area at the level of the right laterocervical region, in its proximal portion.
More distally, a poorly delimited erythematous plaque was observed, with a slight increase in local temperature, with a smaller habonosal plaque inside, which presented a central point.
No other remarkable findings were observed, including a systematic neurological examination.
▁Complementary diagnosis A vascular surgery consultation was performed when a supra-aortic trunk anomaly was suspected, which was clinically more evident due to increased blood pressure.
Doppler ultrasound showed turbulent flow at the level of the right common carotid, with suspicion of a tortuosus tract at the level of the brachiocephalic trunk.
For a correct case study, it was recommended to perform a CT angiography of the supraaortic trunks in a programmed manner.
Diagnosis Arthropod sting in the cervical region, with dolicoectasia area of the right common carotid artery in a patient with a hypertensive emergency.
Treatment The priority attitude with this patient in the Emergency Department was to decrease blood pressure levels, for which oral antihypertensive treatment was initiated.
In addition, an oral antihistamine (2 mg dexfeniramine maleate) and a topical corticoid (0.1%) dexmethasone furoate, referred to as muchloride handling were provided.
Removal of the cervical mass was reported by the patient and his family.
After correction of the tensional figures, the cervical pulsatile area was practically imperceptible, although the unilateral carotid bruit persisted.
At discharge, the patient was referred to the Vascular Surgery and Neurology Clinics to complete the study and initiate prophylactic treatment.
Two weeks after the emergency department visit, the patient was reviewed and a complete disappearance of the cervical erythematous plaque was observed, with absence of associated pruritus.
With all the above, the diagnosis of cervical arthropod stinging with right common carotid dolicoectasia was reached, manifested as a pulsatile mass in the context of a hypertensive emergency.
With all the above, the diagnosis of cervical arthropod stinging with right common carotid dolicoectasia was reached, manifested as a pulsatile mass in the context of a hypertensive emergency.
