Consultation visit attended a 45-year-old male referred by his neurologist who studied him for insomnia.
The patient points out that for a couple of years now he has▁barely achieved sleep "no more than two hours a day".
She suffers from insomnia caused by a feeling of affection and marked maintenance, in such a way that she has abandoned her profession and practically every activity, due to her fatigue.
Occasionally, he says, he can sleep a few hours to mid-morning.
He has tried different pharmacological treatment guidelines without success, as he says.
It does not have a great repercussion in his life motivated by this condition.
In neurology, he has been tested for organic causes.
The real reason for referral of this specialist, explained in the part of the consultation, is not as much insomnia itself but the impact that the patient has on mood and activity.
The patient is shown in a recessive consultation for referral.
It captures all the discourse in the pertinence of insomnia and its impact on their daily lives.
Psychiatric history The same patient had consulted two years earlier, accompanied by his sisters and upon request.
They said that he was very shocking with the neighborhood, and that the deterioration in his social and personal life had been evident from a couple of years to that part.
A▁neighbor alerted the sisters "because she saw him very bad".
Apparently, the patient complained of abdominal pain and chest pain "caused by telekinesia ... a witchy▁neighbor causes them to me".
He▁barely left home, said his sisters, did not eat (he had lost 20 kilos of weight in a few weeks), wrote to the spirits of the patient, and placed various objects in the house for "ahuy."
At that time, the patient smoked 7-8 pigs a day.
He had already left his trade, and lived in prison, keeping contact only with his sisters, who came to the house to visit him and help him in the basic tasks.
The patient's personal history included a previous psychotic episode.
It had occurred 7 years before and, as seems to be ad cannabis a contraindication, after abstinence from cannabis and pharmacological treatment.
At that time, the patient believed that his colleagues were punished and punished, showing hispices in the environment.
From what the family said, it also seemed more a paranoid development than a schizophrenic picture.
At this first visit, the CSM was recommended to▁abstain from substance use, as well as to initiate a regimen of contraceptive therapy.
She was also contacted with the drug care resources, and an organic assessment by her GP was recommended.
On that occasion, the patient did not return to the following visits.
Current episode With all this information is contrasted in the current visit the patient's situation.
mention having achieved absolute abstinence from cannabis after the previous visit, although he only took the pharmacological treatment a couple of days.
Gastric discomfort was organic in origin, a gastric ulcer that even perforated and required emergency intervention.
It is not very important to comment on the possible causes of the current situation.
It works with suspicacia, without wanting to deepen its ideation.
You know what's wrong with this?
He insists, of a refilon, that he employs the witch to influence and harm him, and that this might also be the cause of insomnia.
For him, prior gastric disease is a good idea of what his ideation was and is real.
In any case, he does not accept as possible a mistake in his approaches.
Although she apparently accepts pharmacological treatment, she does not actually take it because she "does not suffer".
What seems to be true is that, currently and for at least 1 year, do not consume cannabis or any other substance.
