An 86-year-old man presented to the emergency room with a 12-hour history of progressive fever and fever.
The most important antecedents were long-standing type 2 diabetes mellitus with non-optimal glycemic control (HbA1c 8.4%) treated with metformin (850mg/8h), arterial hypertension treated with AltFA-II/12h,
The patient was independent for instrumental activities of daily living.
He reported having shaved, that same morning, with an electric shaver (which did not generate incise wounds) as usual.
A 2 cm diameter right malar▁papule appeared throughout the day, indurated, vesicular, non-pruritic and ill-defined.
Injury 30 minutes after arrival to the emergency department, with 12 hours of evolution since the initial appearance.
▁Right malar lesion of 5 cm in extension, indurated, vesicular, non-pruriginous and ill-defined, with progressive addition of multiple intralesional vesicles, with no fluctuating areas.
Within 10 hours, multiple intralesional vesicles appeared, together with a fever peak of 38oC, reason why the patient came to the emergency room.
During his half-hour stay, and after 50mg of dexketoprofen IV, there is an objective progression of the lesion administration to almost the entire region of the right-sided malarcotic area, with a new content.
Injury 15 hours after arrival to the emergency department
Progression of the lesion to almost the entire right hemisphere and submandibular space, together with growth of blisters with sero-hepatite content > 1 cm on violet plaque.
All this was compatible with rapidly progressive right malar dermatitis.
On physical examination the patient was hemodynamically stable with TA 141; FC 130 eupneic, Ta 38.3oC and Glasgow 13.
In the affected area, fluctuating areas were not observed, nor excessively painful.
There were reactive cervical lymph nodes, without compromising mobility of the cervical area or airway.
Blood tests showed: glucose 274 mg/dl, 15.700 leukocytes/mm3 with left shift and CRP 240 mg/L.
The ECG showed an AF with rapid ventricular response.
Blood cultures were extracted with and without fever, and cefazolin 500mg/8h IV and clindamycin 900mg/8h IV were initiated empirically.
Washout of intraflicten fluid (by puncture, serum and aspiration) for urgent Gram stain and culture was performed.
Three hours after arrival to the emergency department, Gram stalks were positive in the chain.
Cefazolin was changed to penicillin G 4 mU/4h IV due to the high possibility of necrotic infection by S. pyogenes.
After 24 hours of evolution, the lesion did not present deep progression, nor did it exceed the superficial limits already delimited.
It was decided to clean the surface at the bedside with the removal of the plyctenes, aiming at devitalized but non-necrotic subcutaneous tissue.
At 36 hours of evolution, the patient begins sudden dyspnea, desaturation, ipsilateral voice, and progression of the lesion at submandibular and cervical level with swelling to the contralateral cervical area.
IV corticoid therapy was started and she was assessed by ENT who ruled out airway compromise by fibroscopy.
Contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the neck showed a supra-anterior neck extension up to the right lateral cervical region, with phlegmonous collection of 40x16x33mm adjacent to the external margin of the masticatory space and the parclavicular space.
The patient was evaluated by Maxillofacial and Plastic Surgery who ruled out emergency surgical attitude due to lack of detectable residue.
Differential diagnosis with rapid evolution of the lesion and the systemic toxicity (fever, tachycardia, leukocytosis, elevated CRP) were made, assuming the bacterial etiology as the first option, ruling out other signs as viruses.
Nevertheless, the location of the lesion should take into account etiologies such as odontogenic focus ichthyosis, which participates in coccyxitis of the neck and head, but has a much greater evolution.
It is important to consider the participation of specific microorganisms with very specific environmental backgrounds, also with a sudden and severe evolution, such as: Aero-rrhycida salobado, Bacillus recessions with freshwater, vulganificia,
The absence of these antecedents and the history of minor trauma with the affected, seems opportune to dismiss these agents in a first approach.
Non-infectious candidiasis (pyoderma▁gangrenosum) or drug eruption is ruled out due to a lack of history of connective tissue diseases or new drug introduction, or change in dosage.
In addition, the need for rapid action is imposed in the presence of a probable bacterial infection with rapid progression.
We are, then, faced with a picture of sudden onset skin and soft tissue infection (SSTI) with systemic repercussions, secondary to a traumatic trigger and rapid evolution.
The IPPB classification is not unanimous, but we can establish several groups: uncomplicated, complicated infections, and the most serious: necrotizing fasciitis and myonecrosis.
In each clinical picture we must consider the possible causative microbiological agent to determine the appropriate action and treatment.
The rapid evolution, systemic and airway compromise, and a history of poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, make it convenient to classify them as complicated PBPI, requiring observation and intravenous antibiotic treatment.
Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes are the most frequently isolated germs in community acquired hypersensitivity, so empirical treatment should be effective for both.
Although clinically difficult to distinguish, S. aureus infection usually has a longer progression, between 48-72h.
However, methicillin-resistant S. aureus strains, which produce Panton-Valentine leukocidin as a virulence factor, cause necrotizing skin infections despite rapid progressive treatment.
Streptococcus spp.
group B are a cause of hypersensitivity in elderly patients with comorbidity, but not as frequently as group A Streptococcus pyogenes (streptococcus pyogenes), manifested by an early onset of symptoms of▁malaise and particularly aggressive chills.
Part of this virulence is secondary to the production of exotoxins releases into tissues, which promote apoptosis of shock cells, as well as in extreme cases, the syndrome.
Therefore, it seems reasonable to think that S. pyogenes is a potential etiology of the case presented here.
Enterobacteriaceae, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are less common in the community, being more common in immunocompromised or nosocomial patients, with a less aggressive clinical picture than in our patient.
Likewise, the polymicrobial origin of the condition is less likely, bearing in mind that the entry point is the skin of the facial region, and not intraoral, where polymicrobasal flora▁predominates together with gram-negative.
The most severe BPP conditions, necrotizing fasciitis and myonecrosis, affect not only the dermis and subcutaneous cellular tissue, but also extend through the anatomical fascia and require urgent surgical treatment.
In our case, both the unbelievable presentation of our patient, the absence of gas in imaging tests, and the inconvenience of contaminated or surgical trauma make the diagnosis of necrotic PBPI unlikely.
In addition, CT ruled out the involvement beyond the plane of subcutaneous cellular tissue, despite extension to the hypopharynx.
The subsequent assessment of surgery was also performed due to lack of surgical intervention.
Key imaging in contrast-enhanced neck CT, requested for sudden dyspnea 24 hours after arrival at the emergency department.
Airway occupation was observed at hypopharyngeal level by a phlegmonous collection of 40x16x33mm adjacent to the external margin of the masticatory space and the right▁parotid.
All of this, along with the extension to the supraclavicular fossa, is called hemiblock and the right lateral cervical region.
Sepsis was diagnosed as complicated facial dermatitis, rapidly progressive, with possible hypopharyngeal abscess.
S. pyogenes group A grew in culture with MIC to penicillin of 0.016.
Blood cultures were negative.
The patient had a favorable evolution with 14 days of treatment of penicillin and clindamycin, and topical cures with daily tapering.
Leukocytosis disappeared and CRP normalized.
There was progressive improvement of lithiasis and mandibular induration, without requiring surgical approach.
The patient was discharged with recovery due to an illumination of her instrumental capabilities.
Final diagnosis Post-traumatic complicated facial cellulitis (hemicara and right cervical region) rapidly progressive by S. Pyogenes (group A) and hypopharyngeal collection (flemon diabetes) in elderly patient with controlled diabetes.
