A 27-year-old woman, 31 weeks pregnant, with a history of malaria diagnosed and treated in her country (did not undergo chemoprophylaxis against this disease).
Natural from Equatorial Guinea, he returned to Spain one week before the beginning of the clinic.
The patient reported, for four days, abdominal discomfort predominantly in hypogastrium along with dysuria and fever syndrome thermometered 38-39 oC.
She had risky sexual relations and toxic habits.
Poor vaccination schedules
Not consuming unpasteurized dairy products, neither baths in fresh water nor intake of contaminated food and water.
Physical examination showed a good general appearance.
Aware and oriented, without neurological focus.
Temperature 39.3 °C.
Arterial hypertension 85/50 mmHg without hypoperfusion.
Rhythmic cardiac tones at 120 beats per minute, without murmurs or friction and conserved vesicular murmur without pathological noises.
The abdomen was characteristic of the pregnancy, not painful.
In the lower limbs there were no edemas or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Patents present and symmetrical
The initial complementary tests were: complete blood count: normocytic and normochromic anemia, absence of leukocytosis.
Normal coagulation and biochemistry.
PCR 107.8 mg/L.
Differential diagnosis This is a patient with RRV (Visiting Friends and tapering) who consulted for febrile syndrome, abdominal discomfort and dysuria of four days of evolution.
▁Complementary laboratory tests detected anemia and platelets below normal limits.
The patient's medical history revealed the epidemiological history of Equatorial Guinea one week before, and she had never undergone malaria chemoprophylaxis.
The initial differential diagnosis should focus on febrile syndrome in a patient from tropical areas.
Malaria is the most important disease to rule out in travelers with fever when returning from the tropics, especially if the patient comes from an endemic area, due to its potential severity and frequency of presentation.
In these areas high risk groups for developing severe malaria and its consequences include young children and pregnant women.
In some series malaria accounts for up to 30% of febrile episodes in▁travellers from this region of the world.
Patients often present nonspecific symptoms and may mimic a minor viral disease.
Patients may present tachycardia, tachypnea, chills,▁malaise, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, voiding or respiratory symptoms.
Manifestations associated with anemia are common, with thrombopenia being detected in 62-83% and anemia in 41% of cases2.
However, it may have a multifactorial cause due to pregnancy and both iron and other nutrients as well as infections caused by hypersensitivity.
Regarding the study of the febrile syndrome around the tropics, it is essential to collect in the clinical history the exposures and risk activities that may be associated with potential infections.
In our case, our patient did not report having been bathed in freshwater areas (rios, lakes...) in Equatorial Guinea, so the schistosomiasis leptospirosis (Katay fever) are less likely.
She reported having had at-risk sexual contacts that suggested acute HIV infection or the transmission of other STDs.
Nor had dairy products consumed without causing fever due to brucellosis.
He had no rashes (which suggested Borrelia spp infection), skin rash or bleeding manifestations.
Nevertheless, in patients coming from the tropics, infections caused by arbovirus, such as dengue fever, transmitted by the bite of the Aedes mosquito, endemic in Central America and its surroundings, should be studied.
The onset time is 4 to 7 days (range 3 to 10 days).
The infection has an initial course with biphasic fever, headache, intense myalgia and macular or papulomacular rash present in up to half of the cases.
Sometimes progresses to a life-threatening condition (severe dengue or hemorrhagic dengue).
The diagnosis is usually retrospective by serology or in the first days by PCR.
Chikungunya virus infection, also caused by arboviruses, endemic in Africa and with sprouts in Asia, Europe, islands in the oceans and the Ice Bank, has become important in recent years.
It is transmitted by the bite of the Aedes mosquito, with a period of insanity of 1 to 14 days.
It is characterized by the presence of fever, polyarthralgias and arthritis and skin manifestations (macular RAS) in up to 40-75% of patients.
The diagnosis is made by virus PCR or serology.
In any fever of unknown origin, arthropod-borne cryptosis should be ruled out.
The symptoms usually appear at two weeks characterized by high fever that may last 2-3 weeks, headache, intense myalgia, chills and skin rash in limbs, affecting palms and soles and extending rapidly.
Other manifestations are hepatomegaly or biliary stricture, thrombopenia and disseminated intravascular coagulation.
If we study the cases of fever in▁travellers returning from the tropics, 11% of them present clinical respiratory infection that could be ruled out initially in our case due to the absence of symptoms.
The most frequent causes are viral infections of the upper respiratory tract, bronchitis, viral and bacterial pneumonias.
Among the latter, there is a greater number of etiologies.
Other etiologies, such as viral hepatitis and viral hepatitis, could be ruled out. It is important to remember that the patient did not report any activities in hepatic grues or signs in non-clinical meningitis, which is the most common form of inhalation of neurological spores, and its clinical manifestations.
In contrast, gastrointestinal and urinary tract infections should be taken into account, as these were the guiding symptoms.
Fever is an infectious disease caused by Salmonella serotype and Salmonella serotype Paratyphi A.B.
To be taken into account since its mechanism is fecal-oral manifestation through contaminated food and water, with high prevalence in endemic areas (most prevalent 100 cases per 100,000 inhabitants-year).
It most commonly affects children and young adults.
The onset is usually insidious.
The predominant symptoms are fever, headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting and chills.
However, there are classic symptoms such as bradycardia and the dichortic pulse and rosacea spots in the trunk and abdomen that are not present in our patient, as well as hepatomegaly and adenopathy.
Blood cultures are positive between 50-70%.
Currently, there are two vaccines (oral and parenteral) with effectiveness between 64 and 95 %.
Concluding positive previous clinical, epidemiological and analytical orientative data are carried out in parallel: • rapid malaria diagnosis test (panmalarial and P. falciparum atypical forms)
• thick silver: P. Falciparum with parasitemia degree between 8-10 % • Urocultive and hemocultives were also requested without isolation of microorganisms.
• Serology: negative (CLIA); negative IgM CMV negative, positive IgG CMV; negative HIV (ELISA) negative; negative IgG IgM positive IgM positive HBeAg negative IgM negative, IgG negative HBeAg negative; IgG positive IgM negative
He was admitted to the intensive care unit with a diagnosis of malaria by P. falciparum with severity criteria, performing intravenous treatment (iv) with artesunate (5 doses of 2.4 mg/kg daily control of parasitemia at 0, 72 hours,
At 24 hours, parasitemia was 0.5% (undetectable at 48 hours).
Subsequently, the patient was treated sequentially with 3 tablets of Eurartesim® orally for 3 days (120 mg/day piperaquina + 960 mg).
Final diagnosis Plasmodium falciparum malaria with severity criteria (paramia greater than 5%).
