The patient was a 45-day-old woman with catarrhal symptoms for a week.
For 3 days, she had coughing in accesses that follow facial flushing, so she was prescribed dextromethorphan.
30 minutes ago, the patient developed cutaneous apnea and cleft lip, so the father performed mouth-to-mouth resuscitation with subsequent recovery of breathing.
During her stay in the hospital she presented 2-3 episodes of apneas without previous accesses, which continued to present bradycardia ANTECE with corticoid fixation in the pulmonary arteries managed conservatively, with threatened preterm labor.
Serology a rubella, toxoplasma, HIV and negative.
Urgent cesarean section at 33 weeks of gestation.
Appgar 9/4.
Type III resuscitation.
The patient was admitted to the neonatal unit after presenting a life-threatening atelectasis diagnosed with desaturation requiring positive pressure ventilation and subsequent orotracheal intubation, with conventional mechanical ventilation and subsequent high frequency (persistent hypertension in the left membrane), with a high degree of
Acknowledgement with artificial feeding.
Immunization calendar not yet initiated.
A review pending in neonatology consultations, eye fundus examination, and non-relevant auditory evoked potentials ANTECE AFMILIARES.
PHYSICAL EXPLORATION AT REVENUE Weight: 3300 g (p50-75), Length 51 cm (p 90), WC 35 cm (p75), HR 147 bpm, Sweating 39 rp
PA: Good bilateral ventilation, with some highway transmitted noises.
Cardiac arrest: normal· Abdomen blando, depredictable, non-painful, without masses or visceromegaly ENT: normal.
Neurological: anterior chamber with normal pressure of 2 x 2 cm.
Good spontaneous activity.
Reactive to stimuli.
Normal tone and strength.
Normal external genitals.
COMPLEMENTARY EXAMINATIONS: CBC: 9400 leukocytes/mm3 (42%N, 51%L, 6%M), Hb 9.7 gr/dl, hematocrit 28%, platelets 665000.
Biochemistry: glucose, urea and creatinine were normal.
CRP < 0.3 mg/dl.
capillary gas: pH 7.25, 64 mm HG, HCO· 27.6 mmol/l, EB 0.1 mmol/l, lactic acid 1.3 mmol/l.
Chest X-ray: Bilateral interstitial infiltrate Antigenic determination of RSV, influenza A and B: negative.
Blood culture: no growth.
Coprocultive and antigenic determination of rotavirus and adenovirus in▁faeces: negative.
Bordetella PCR: EVOLUTION Upon admission, she presented two episodes of nasal apnea with facial dryness, labial cleft and cleft lip. Upon admission, she was diagnosed with respiratory infection due to obstructive nasal CPAP due to CMV.
After withdrawal of respiratory support, the patient progresses favorably, with a progressive decrease in cough access and desaturation episodes associated with them, which require stimulation.
At high oral tolerance, adequate gain (weight at discharge 3420 g) and poor cough access, which do not require stimulation for recovery.
FINAL DIAGNOSIS Pertussis
