A 34-year-old white male patient with positive serology for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) since 2004 was classified as AIDS in 2006 when he was diagnosed with smear-positive pulmonary TB.
At that time, it was treated with the conventional scheme (isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and etambu) according to the National Tuberculosis Control Program in Cuba with adequate adherence.
After the end of the treatment, the patient was discharged, asymptomatic, with favorable evolution and complete healing.
Since that year, antiretroviral therapy began with this medication and began treating this condition with hypersensitivity and/or anaphylaxis/abacavir, a scheme that continued until 2012, in which he changed to abacavir/methadone therapy due to failure
In June 2014, she was admitted to the IPK Hospital, reporting fever of approximately two months duration, intermittent, vespertine, accompanied by profuse sweating and significant weight loss.
Moreover, since the onset of fever, the patient developed dysuria and received several antibiotics (sulfaprim, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin) without response to treatment.
One week before admission, the patient reported having experienced an episode of rectal bleeding and rectal bleeding.
During admission, the fever characteristics described were confirmed, as well as the presence of a rectovesical fistula.
Physical examination of the skin showed an anterior ulcerated lesion of the left hemithorax of 3 mm in size, with drainage of purulent secretion about two months ago.
The wife of this patient was hospitalized in the IPK from the same date for gynecological manifestations.
The wife died of disseminated mycobacteriosis as the main cause of death.
The patient underwent diagnostic work-up at admission.
Abdominal ultrasound imaging: small periaortic and peripancreatic lymphadenopathies, greater than 18 X 13 mm, were observed.
In addition, bladder with cellularity at the level of the bladder floor, irregular wall with thickening of 8.7 mm in an extension of 40 mm.
Computed tomography of the abdomen: bladder with irregular inferior contour and full defect of vegetating aspect.
Radiology of the bone pelvis: L5 left lamina fracture line.
Chest X-ray: no pleuropulmonary alterations.
Molecular tests Molecular detection of M. tuberculosis in urine: Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was extracted from three Magnanian urine samples of the patient according to the methodology described by Sechi et al.
Subsequently, PCR was performed using the IS 6110 insertion of M. tuberculosis.6 Bacteriological culture Culture Cultivated bacilli M. tuberculosis resistant coding: Lowenstein Identstein-J medium skin lesion
With these elements, in July 2014, treatment for extrapulmonary TB (UGBT) began.
In addition, antiretroviral treatment was changed with truvada/efavirenz regimen.
In September 2014, the patient was reassessed and had a fever, did not report urinary symptoms, did not manifest urine leakage through the rectum, or skin secretion, with weight gain and favorable clinical outcome.
It continues with the first phase of anti-TB treatment.
