A 25-year-old female patient, born in Honduras, presented to the emergency department with fever, odynophagia and arthralgias for 48 hours.
In the last 10h he developed severe holocraneal headache, generalized maculopapular rash and swelling of hands and feet.
• Personal history: – No hypertension.
No DM.
No LD.
– No Iqx.
'Not usual.
Non-CARMA • Epidemiological history: – Long-term stay in the hospital for 2 months (Tegucigalpa and Choluteca stage) as VFR.
'No advice beforehand.'
Non-immunization of feverish.
– Consumption of drinking water.
Not consuming foods that are little cooked/crude
Do not contact animals.
Do not remember mosquito bites.
Non-contact with patients.
She denies risky sexual intercourse.
• Re-interrupting the patient reported an episode of similar characteristics in early January with fever,▁malaise, arthromyalgia and generalized rash.
• Possibly viriasis dx is symptomatic in your country.
Complete resolution at 72h.
• Sister, at that time, with similar symptoms.
17/11/15. The patient was referred to Honduras: Asymptomatic 02 01/16 She presented fever: Asymptomatic 16/01/16 Return to Spain 20/01/16 No feverish condition 22 EF 0117
- Generalised non-pruriginous rash.
Bilateral conjunctival injection.
- ENT: no enanthema.
No other lesions in the oral mucosa.
A hyperemic pharynge without an▁exudate
- Minimal cervical lymphadenopathy.
- PO: cvm without added noise.
CA: rhythmic and without murmurs.
- ABD: normal.
RHA+.
No visceromegaly.
- Oedema on the back of your hands and the buttock.
Differential Dx fever and rash▁Complementary tests LINFOCITOS 0.76 We urgently requested micro: 1.
Blood culture and rapid malaria test
2.
Quick malaria test and dengue fever test
3.
Hemocultives are not needed because the patient has "something viral".
4.
Emergency HIV serology and rapid antigen testing
5.
Blood culture and rapid malaria and dengue test.
• HCx2 is extracted and a rapid antigen detection test and Plasmodium are performed.
Additional tests that would be done: 1.
The patient was discharged with symptomatic treatment and follow-up visits.
2.
Sure it's a dengue fever even if the rapid test is negative, we leave the patient under observation for 24 hours.
3.
Some ciprofloxacine and follow-up in consultations.
4.
She was admitted with ceftriaxone for suspected leptospirosis.
5.
The patient was admitted with symptoms for study.
Diagnosis of suspicion 1.
Thyphoid fever
2.
Measles or rubella
3.
An imported viral infection
4.
It's a P. vivax malaria.
5.
It's a rickettsial disease and he wouldn't have been discharged home without mucus.
ABSTRACT – Patient VFR with rash, fever, arthralgia, edema and conjunctivitis.
'Stay in Longs.'
Urban and rural areas.
'The symptoms begin at 4d after the journey is over.
Acquired fever 3 weeks earlier
Day +5 of onset of symptoms manifesting itself in CONSULTATIONS: - Pte already AFEBRIL.
- Persistence of generalised rash with petechiae in distal areas and increased arthralgias and swelling of the hands and feet with functional impotence preventing proper ambulation.
- E. Neurological without evidence of impaired sensitivity or strength.
Conserved OTT.
- Analytical control: - PCR 17.7; 1480/ lymphocytes 3.090; plaq 314.000; normal coag.
- HCx2 negative results.
- Serology from the Emergency Department: - HIV: negative.
Positive IgG HAV.
HBV: HBsAg positive, rest negative.
HCV: negative.
Syphilis: negative.
A microbiological study was carried out with: - CRP of vignette, Chikungunya and Zika in serum.
- urine PCR for v. Zika.
- Dosages for vignettes, Chikungunya and Zika.
- Serology of Leptospira, Ritisia, Borrelia, rubeola, measles, parotiditis, parvovirus B19, CMV, HAV, HBV and HCV.
Positive IgM ZIKA positive IgM ZIKA positive IgGORHINTK positive IgG CHINGI positive IgG ORHINTK positive IgG CHINTIB positive IgG CIN Positive IgG CHINGI positive IgG PRKIN Positive IgGK positive IgGK positive IgG CHINGU Positive IgG CHINGIB CABK positive IgG1
Acute Zika virus infection.
2.
Recent past infection with Chikungunya virus
3.
Probable infection due to dengue fever virus andVOLUTION OF PACI - Fasciatable arthritis resolved within 3 weeks.
- He had mild asthenia.
No symptoms at two months follow-up.
