Personal history No known allergies to medications.
Toxic habits: smoker of 1 paq/day.
She had been operated on for pneumothorax for more than 15 years.
She was admitted up to 11 days before to the respiratory service with the diagnosis of probable moderate COPD and respiratory infection treated with levofloxacin for 7 days with good evolution.
The positive cultures for A. trachomatis in the laboratory were interpreted as a possible contamination during admission.
Current treatment: citalopram 20 mg, inhaled glucopyrronium and paracetamol.
Baseline functional situation: preserved upper functions, work as dependent on a clothing store.
She lives with her husband and children.
Current disease Progressive Dyspnea of 3 days of evolution.
Today dyspnea at rest.
She suffered 4 days ago, fever peak up to 37.8°C and right hip pain that disappeared alone, so she did not consult.
Personal hygiene: TA 110/62, FC 115 lpm, Ta 37.7°C, Sat O2 (Venificent insurance 40 %) 95 %.
Tachypnea, 18▁rpm.
Upon inspection, the patient was found to be normocolored, with good hydration of skin and mucous membranes.
On cardiac auscultation, the heart is rhythmic, with systolic murmur mitral focus.
Pulmonary auscultation revealed crackles in the middle and lower lung fields and scattered wheezing.
The abdomen is blushing and depressible, without pain to palpation with present noises.
The lower extremities do not present edemas and the pedal pulses are present and symmetrical.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES ECG: sinus tachycardia at 115 bpm.
Chest radiography: cardiac silhouette at the upper limit of normal.
Analytical: PO2 80 mmHg; PCO2 34 mmHg; pH 7.49; HCO3 25.9 mmol/l; lactate 10 mg/dl.
Glucose 112 mg/dl; creatinine 0.63 mg/dl; GPT 15 U/l; Na 137 mmol/l; K 3.99 mmol/l; CK 16 U/l; PCT 11.29 ng/ml; CRP
Hb 10.3 g/dl; platelets 207,000/μL; leukocytes 9,200/μL (N 78.5
PI 100 %; INR 1.
Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography: the left ventricle is neither dilated nor hypertrophic, with good global systolic and hyperdynamic function.
The mitral valve presents several images, the greater than 19 x 6 mm, compatible with endodontic vegetations.
The posterior valve presents a significant perforation that leads to a massive resurgence.
The aortic valve presents an image in the LVOT dependent on the non-coronary velum (13 x 6 mm), this seems to be perforated and there is an important coaptation defect that leads to severe regurgitation in the right coronary artery.
The right ventricle is not relaxed, with good systolic function.
No pericardial effusion was observed coronary angiography: coronary network without lesions.
EVOLUTION of the findings described, the patient is admitted to the Coronary Unit, where the commented TEE is performed.
Treatment was started with intravenous ampicillin and gentamicin.
Since the patient was admitted for heart failure, surgery was performed within 24 hours of double valve replacement, aortic (Carbomedics Top Hat No 21) and mitral (Bicarbon Fitline No 27).
Cardiac surgery was uneventful, with ischemia time 102 min and CPB time 123 min.
The surgeon describes, as intraoperative findings: mitral valve stenosis in posterior valve stenosis, non-coronary aortic valve stenosis with both valve stenosis and stenosis findings.
The patient was sent to pathology and microbiology for culture, confirming the infection caused by Partnosus.
The patient was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit, from the operating room with hemodynamic compromise with▁norepinephrine at 0.2 μg/kg/min, in sinus tachycardia 135 bpm with BP 80/50 mmHg.
Echocardioscopy (V-Scan) showed severe biventricular dysfunction (estimated LVFE 10 %) without pericardial effusion.
The findings and the normal function of both prostheses were confirmed by TEE (Video 5 and 6).
Therefore, it begins with intensive serum therapy and is progressively associated with increasing doses of noradrenaline (up to 2 μg/kg/min), dopamine (up to 20 μg/kg/min). μg
Thus, we achieved an AMT 65-70 mmHg, CVP 18 mmHg, HR 110 bpm, CG 3.2 L/min and CI 2.3 L/min/m2.
However, it persists in oliguria and with increasing number of pins and pins in the▁ears and lower limbs.
We opted for intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation.
In spite of the counterpulsation (1:1) and the "stability" of hemodynamic parameters, data on cardiogenic shock with peripheral hypoperfusion are increasing (lactic 10 - TLC > 0.63 - dl) 15 mg/dl.
Therefore, it is indicated the implantation of veno-arterial ECMO with peripheral access, guided by TEE, which is successfully performed.
Subsequently, the patient progressed favorably, progressively decreasing the analytical parameters of peripheral hypoperfusion, and could slowly decrease the doses of inovasive drugs.
Finally, at 14 days, ECMO was removed and hemodynamically well tolerated 24 hours later.
After 30 days of admission to the intensive care unit, the patient was discharged to the hospital ward.
DIAGNOSIS Infectious endocarditis on native mitral and aortic valves due to congenital stenosis with complicated heart failure.
Mitral and aortic valve replacement surgery.
Cardiogenic shock after cardiac surgery requiring balloon intra-aortic counterpulsation and ECMO support, with good outcome.
