Anamnesis Male, 75-year-old farmer, allergic to NSAIDS, with a history of dyslipidemia and COPD.
He came to the consultation due to the presence of ulcerated lesion on the back of the right hand, of 3 months of evolution and progressive growth, which occurred after accidental trauma with ploughing while performing field work.
Subsequently, other smaller subcutaneous lesions appeared progressively, advancing proximally in the right forearm and arm.
No fever or other associated systemic symptoms.
Physical examination revealed an indurated, ulcerated-costal plaque with seropurulent secretion of 2 cm in diameter located on the back of the right hand.
He had three other nodular lesions, erythematous surface and one centimeter in diameter, in the forearm and ipsilateral arm, following the lymphatic route.
▁Complementary culture findings and incisional biopsy of the dorsum of the hand were performed for microbiological and histopathological study respectively.
Histopathology showed marked irregular▁epidermal hyperplasia, pseudoepitheliomatous, with multiple dermal and intraepidermal microabscesses and mixed cellular inflammatory infiltrate at the dermal level consisting of lymphocytes.
In the center of the microabscesses, numerous nuclear fragments were observed, with cellular detritus appearing to be expelled through tracts or sinuses towards the▁epidermal surface.
With the PAS technique, at the microabscesses level, very few and doubtful images were observed that could correspond to spores of honeycombing, although they were not conclusive.
The microbiological study raised doubts when it was isolated in the Sporothrix globosa culture, which is part of the Sporothrix schenckii complex.
Diagnosis The data obtained in the anamnesis, along with the physical examination and the complementary tests established the diagnosis of sporotrichosis.
Late treatment included clinical suspicion of the condition, prevention of microbiological confirmation. Empirical treatment with itraconazole 200 mg/day was initiated for 12 weeks. Six weeks later, the patient had a very good evolution after four weeks of treatment with complete resolution.
