Consultation report A 6-year-old girl came to consultation with her parents who reported fever, cough and mucus of four days duration treated with physical and antipyretic measures without clinical improvement.
After a thorough examination with pathological respiratory auscultation and normal chest X-ray, she was treated with a dose of Azithromycin, suspecting pneumonia, which improved presumably.
Three months later, having been found asymptomatic until then, he came to the hospital with skin lesions in the lateral regions of the trunk, glulites and thighs, which we began to study with the help of complementary tests.
Individual approach As the only personal history of interest to highlight atopic dermatitis, was correctly vaccinated and no drug allergies were known.
He had not had any journey of interest or relations with animals other than those already experimented.
As a family history there is no finding of interest.
In May, the patient consulted due to a fever of four days of evolution, cough and mucus. After pulmonary auscultation, we decided to request 48 hours of▁inpatient treatment for pneumonia. A chest X-ray showed no improvement in condensation.
Three months later, the patient presented with polymorphic▁papules, erythematous plaques and edemas, as well as pathognomonic vesicles and vesicles that appeared on the day with a central ulcerated gallbladder.
They were pruriginous but there were no signs of impingementization or other complications, we prescribed Dexchlorpheniramine to improve pruritus and indicated evolution.
Days later, her mother was▁worried because the lesions were spreading, mainly in the glutees and thighs, asymptomatic for the child.
We decided to keep watchful and review the patient in a few weeks.
She came to the scheduled appointment with both parents presenting the same lesions, without pruritus since she used the prescribed antihistamine treatment.
Their parents, due to concern and uncertainty, require some complementary test and another assessment to clarify the reason for the injuries.
We believed a clinical diagnosis of Multiform Erythema to be a minor, as it also has a pathognomonic lesion, but in view of this concern we requested tests and referred the patient to a specialist.
▁Complementary tests showed blood count, biochemistry and acute phase reactants in range and serology with IgM positive for Mycoplasma pneumoniae, without other findings.
The patient sought treatment for dermatopathology because he suggested using cutaneous Az and/or fungal infection, which we initially did not follow; we requested a new analytical and observed a fourfold increase.
After weeks and with repeated sprouts of skin lesions, parents remained uneasy and required curative treatment.
Family and community approach regarding their family structure make up a nuclear family with close relatives (their parents, their elder brother and at home) without any stressing vital illness.
Nutritional family style, with family union, parenting and adaptation to the needs and stimulating interests of their children in pre-school and school age.
We can catalogue according to the Duvall model: consolidation stage and IV opening of the family life cycle.
Clinical judgement There is currently controversy regarding the group of lesions where we classify our case: Multiform Minor Erythema (MMm).
Most of the authors classifying the Multiform Erythema, Stevens-Johnson (SSJ) and the Toxic-pathological Necrovirus, one possible clinical entity (extension syndrome) as distinct manifestations of severity.
MMS are acute recurrent or non-recurrent lesions, self-limiting that do not have mucosal involvement or is minimal and heal without sequelae, usually within 2-4 weeks, although they can sometimes be treated with a Minor Multiform.
The EMMayor heals also without sequelae but can produce acute sprouts and there is mucosal involvement.
SJS are acute non-self-limiting lesions that also include visceral manifestations.
Finally, progressive consolidation is triggered by drugs and also affects internal organs with a fulminant course.
The diagnosis is mainly clinical combined with histological if necessary.
Laboratory findings in minor MS are normal; in MS, there may be an increased globular sedimentation rate, moderate leukocytosis and slight increase in transaminase levels, and laboratory findings depend on fever and sepsis.
Plan of action After the diagnosis and having treated Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection for months, now proposing to improve the▁dermatological picture, we explain to parents that there is no less consensus in the literature regarding the management of MS.
There is controversy regarding the use of systemic corticosteroids, it has not been demonstrated that they shorten the duration of the disease and could be associated with increased frequency of sprouts and their chronicity.
We propose expectation.
Two weeks later, with persistent lesions, the parents declined to try corticoid treatment.
Prednisone was indicated at a dose of 1mg/kg/day during the sprouts until the lesions disappeared, when the dose was reduced.
The girl was still seen with her parents for mild skin sprouts every 10-15 days.
If the patient was completely unaffected, it was decided to treat pruritus only once again.
The clinical course lasted from 9 to 10 months until spontaneous remission.
