We report the case of a 67-year-old male, without known drug allergies and previous history of hypertension, non-anticoagulated permanent atrial fibrillation and heart failure of hypertensive origin in New York Heart Association functional class I-II.
In addition to this background, the recent diagnosis of liver cirrhosis of probable ethylic origin after being admitted to the Digestive Service due to a first episode of ethylic cirrhosis was added, which was controlled with diuretics.
At the time of admission, a 2 cm liver lesion with a radiological pattern suggestive of hepatocellular carcinoma was observed. At the present time, the patient is still pending evaluation by the Liver Transplant Unit.
Three months after admission, the patient came back to the emergency room for worsening of his general condition, feeling of abdominal disorientation and constipation, accompanied by fever and chills without fever.
Ascites, renal failure, not previously present, and hyponatremia are observed in the emergency room, so admission to the gastroenterology department is made after ruling out the presence of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis by diagnostic paracentesis.
On arrival at the Digestive Plant, the responsible physician indicates the presence of hemocultives without fever, in case of suspicion of a possible infectious process not evident, as the cause of the current isolation.
48 hours after the extraction of the hemocultives, the growth of a Gram-positive enterobacteria is reported from Microbiology, which is evaluated by MALDITOF technique as Clostridium ramosum.
After a directed anamnesis, the patient reported as the only additional symptom, non-existent, a low back pain radiating to the left lower limb, lasting about 3 weeks and apparently mechanical rhythm.
He had consulted for these symptoms in his health center, having started his primary care physician treatment with common analgesics, without noticeing the patient a clear improvement of the condition.
On physical examination, the patient presented an analgesic posture in hip flexion with pain due to palpation in the lumbar region and Lasegue was positive at 60 degrees.
Both mobility and sensitivity were preserved.
This clinic prevented him from resting at night and worsened with mobilization.
Since admission, the patient had suffered a mental illness at all times.
a previous abdominal CT was performed to detect Clostridium ramosum in hemocultives, and new blood cultures were extracted without fever, a nucleic acid amplification test was performed in vitro for the detection and identification of colonic DNA
Pending the antibiogram, treatment with intravenous penicillin was started, which after confirming sensitivity to metronidazole was suspected, to avoid saline overload associated with the administration of penicillin in a zyrotic patient with ascites.
The second hemocultives extracted without fever and the SEPTIFAST were negative and the abdominal CT showed no data of intraabdominal infection or colonic pathology.
On the other hand, the hepatic lesion remained stable with respect to the previous imaging test, with no data of portal vein thrombosis.
Regarding the lumbar spine, CT was reported as degenerative changes at the third and fourth lumbar vertebra without spondylodyscitis data.
On the following days of admission, the patient remained afflicted with uncontrolled low back pain despite analgesia, which led to the use of intravenous▁steroids for pain control.
Because of the persistence of the symptoms, it was decided to request a nuclear magnetic resonance (MR).
Differential diagnosis Bacteriemia due to Clostridium ramosum of unknown focus: 1.
In favor of the abdominal focus, history of liver cirrhosis, abdominal distension sensation and constipation.
Contrary to this diagnosis, the presence of CT without suggestive data.
2.
In favor of the osteoarticular focus, the presence of lumbosciatalgia and degenerative changes of the lumbar spine on CT.
On the other hand, the characteristics of pain, which are impressive of mechanical rhythm, the absence of data suggestive of spondylodyscitis on CT and the improbability of Clostridium ramosum as the cause of this entity
3.
Finally, to assess the presence of Clostridium ramosum in hemocultives as a possible error.
Vertebral stenosis MR showed hyperintensity in STIR of the bodies L3, L4 and L5 and hyperintensity in TSE T2 and STIR of the lumbar L4-L5▁intervertebral discs.
MRI sagittal section lumbosacral spine T1 and T2: vertebral body involvement L3, L4 and L5.
Administration of intravenous gadolinium revealed heterogeneous enhancement of the lower half of the vertebral body L3 and vertebral bodies L4 and L5.
In addition, hypointense tissue on T1-weighted sequences and hyperintense tissue on T2-weighted sequences and lateral and posterior STIR sequences to the L3-L5 vertebral bodies are observed, which enhances heterogeneously with foci. hypocap
All these findings are compatible with infectious spondylodylodyscitis at L3-L4 and L4-L5 level with phlegmonous tissue and foci of epidural abscess extending the vertebral canal.
In addition, at the level of the left psoas muscle, numerous focal areas are observed, markedly hyperintense on T2 peripheral uptake and hypocapnic center in relation to abscesses at this level.
Clostridium difficile caused by an infectious spondylodiscitis and a single positive hemocultive to Clostridium ramosum, extracted without fever, we propose if the spondylodyscitis was caused by the different clinical significance or
Therefore, the dilemma was raised whether to assume the etiology of Clostridium or perform a vertebral sampling in a patient at high surgical risk for cirrhosis with associated coagulopathy.
After a discussion of the case it was decided that we could not assume with the minimum guarantees that Clostridium ramosum was the cause of the picture, so we proposed the realization of a vertebral biopsy for taking microbiological samples.
After informing the patient, this is due to any invasive procedure, therefore rejecting the sampling.
Since the patient was completely negative for sampling, it was decided to design an empirical antibiotic treatment that was active against Clostridium ramosum, but with coverage against other more common germs such as staphylococci, strictobacteria.
Since Clostridium was sensitive to quinolones, after completing nine days of intravenous treatment with metronidazole and requesting the patient to be discharged on voluntary basis, it was decided to discharge him with 400 mg of moxifloxacin daily orally until a new review.
One month after hospital discharge, in the first consultation review, the patient was clinically worse, with low back pain irradiating to both lower limbs that prevented mobilization, although there was no loss of strength or paresthesia.
Analytically, there was a slight increase in C-reactive protein (CRP) from 1 mg/L at discharge to 12 mg/L.
In this situation, it was decided to return to the patient to take samples, given the possibility of therapeutic failure, in order to clarify the microbiological etiology of the condition, accepting the patient on this occasion the procedure.
At that time, it was decided to suspend antibiotic treatment to optimize the profitability of the sampling and a new MRI, a transesophageal ultrasound, and a new blood culture without fever were requested.
Echocardiography showed no data of infective endocarditis.
Follow-up MRI showed progression of L3-L4 and L4-L5 spondylodyscitis in the left perioral process, with stenosis of the disks and extension of the abscesses in the phlegmonus.
MRI sagittal section lumbosacra spine T1 and T2: progression of spondylodyscitis L3-L4 and L4-L5 is observed with disc deformation.
Blood cultures, again extracted without fever, were again reported as positive for Clostridium ramosum.
Despite this isolation, it was decided to maintain the indication for vertebral biopsy, but finally this was not performed because the▁Anesthesia Service was dismissed at the last moment due to surgical risk.
Again, we raised the dilemma of whether to assume that Clostridium was the cause and prior treatment had been insufficient or if the detection of Clostridium in hemocultive had no clinical significance and the cause of the poor empirical course could be insufficient.
After discussing the case in a multidisciplinary session and reviewing the literature, it was proposed that the detection of Clostridium ramosum in hemocultives on two occasions should be considered as significant and that the initial treatment could have been insufficient.
Therefore, it was decided to repeat an intravenous treatment cycle and potentiate treatment at discharge with two active drugs against Clostridium.
Thus, treatment with ampicillin 2 grams every 6 hours for 20 days was restarted with oral moxifloxacin 400 mg for 21 days, with subsequent sequential treatment with amoxicillin (1 g every 8 hours).
The patient was reviewed in consultations 8 weeks after the start of oral treatment (10 weeks of cumulative treatment) to assess clinical, radiological and analytical evolution.
In a control MRI, an increase in the abscesses of the right pso3-L was observed in the anterolateral epidural space of L3-L4 and L4-L5 which caused stenosis of the canal, but with a decrease in adjacent bone edema L5
MRI sagittal section lumbosacra spine T2: increase in the rate of consolidation in the space of L3-L4 and L4-L5 that caused stenosis of the canal.
Clinically, the patient was in a stationary situation, with poorly controlled pain but with good mobilization of both lower limbs.
In analytical control, a further increase in CRP was documented, which was 60 mg/L (previous 12 mg/L).
This situation was decided to continue with the current antibiotic treatment and associate dexamethasone 4 mg every 12 hours for pain control.
In a review after 14 weeks of oral treatment, the patient showed significant clinical improvement and a CRP of 1 mg/L, so it was decided to discontinue antibiotic treatment.
At present, the patient remains asymptomatic and is pending radiological and analytical reassessment 8 weeks after the end of treatment.
Final diagnosis L3-L4 and L4-L5 spondylodyscitis secondary to Clostridium ramosum bacteremia.
