A 14-year-old male with a history of intrinsic asthma and atopic dermatitis, with no relevant epidemiological history.
She came to the emergency department with progressive asthenia of 8 months and fever of 7 days of evolution up to 38oC with intense night sweats.
In the anamnesis, retrofitting pain irradiated to the right hypochondrium also progressive of 5 months of evolution.
No weight loss or infectious focus.
Examination revealed fever of 38oC, tachypnea at 28 breaths per minute and hepatomegaly of 3cm.
I'm back without findings.
In initial complementary tests (PPCC), progressive anemization in the last month (hemoglobin 8.7mg/dL), leukocytosis (17,100/microL) with normal formula and thrombocytosis (961,000 C-reactive protein (131,86mg), elevation of 1.5mg).
Basic laboratory test results showed no findings including renal function, ionogram, liver profile, iron status and anemia.
The chest X-ray showed a 4x5cm mass, dependent on the middle lobe, effaceting a cardiac silhouette already present in the prone position 5 months before.
She was admitted to Internal Medicine, establishing a differential diagnosis between lymphoma, solid neoplasm and infectious cause.
A battery of CCPP with immunoglobulins with fraction G (IgG) 1754mg/dL was amplified, with polyclonal gammaglobulinemia in proteinogram and weakly positive Coombs test.
Serologies (including borrelia, chlamydia, coxiella, mycoplasma negative, rissia, cytomegalovirus, parvovirus B19, Mycobacterium HIV, Eb Istein-TB)
Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed the presence of moderate pericardial effusion and a 2.5x7x7cm mass dependent on the diaphragm suggestive of infectious or inflammatory etiology.
Positron emission tomography (PET-CT) suggestive of▁mediastinum lymphoma
At this time, the possibility of IgG4 disease is suspected, aiming at a G4 fraction of IgG above the range (>154mg/dL) and biopsy of the mass showing CD20 positive▁lymphoid infiltrate with IgG4 positive plasma cells in 50%.
The patient was treated with prednisone 0.5mg/kg/day, with an excellent clinical evolution, complete disappearance of abnormalities asymmetrical at two weeks, and aimed at the complete 4 months of complete resolution of the paradiaphragmatic mass TCA hypercap with PET-control.
The definitive diagnosis was IgG4 disease with peri- and pulmonary involvement.
