Headache and dizziness.
52-year-old male with no other personal history than HIV infection of > 10 years of evolution with good virological control (CD4 910μ l
The patient suffered from holocrane headache and dizziness for 15 days, associated with▁daytime sleepiness, asthenia and anorexia which increased in the last weeks and weight loss of 5 kg in addition to professing sweating.
The patient expresses being overwhelmed because she feels that in recent weeks she forgets everyday things and says she has unmotivated▁crying spontaneously.
On physical examination, the patient was conscious, oriented and cooperative, eupneic at rest and cardiopulmonaryally stable, with auscultation and anodyne abdominal examination.
At the neurological level, only the presence of a pathological Romberg was striking, and minimal gestural facial paralysis, without presenting at the time nuchal▁rigidity, nor other signs of focal meningeal irritation craneo, as well as some other neurological movements were evident.
- Analytical:▁Haemogram: haemoglobin 17.9g/dl, Platelets 235x103/μl, Leukocytes 9.76 x103/μl, Lymphocytes 3.26 x103/μl, Neutral
Pathogen: Pathogen 511mg/dl, normal rest.
Biochemistry: Glucose 86 mg/dl, Albumin 4.6 g/dl, Uelectrolytic 7.7 mg/dl normal glomerular filtration 69 mL/min, Creatinine 1.18 mg/dl, profile hydrolytic normal.
CRP: 0.14 mg/L Gastric discharge: Ph 7.469, PaCO22.1 mmHg, PaO2 126 mmHg, SaO2 98.3%, HCO3 22.6 mmol/L.
Urine: normal.
- head CT: hyperdense LOE at the level of the corpus callosum crossing the midline and contacting the posterior cerebral asymptomatic ventricles with perilesional edema and slight suggestive cerebral mass effect on the brain
Clinical judgement (listed problems, differential diagnosis) The first diagnosis that occurred in the emergency room for later admission was a brain lesion compatible with primary cerebral lymphoma in HIV patient stage A1, which after this finding becomes a C1 stage.
Plan of action and CMV She was admitted to Internal Medicine to extend the study with a contrast-enhanced cranial MRI (BodytaC-plasma seropositivity IgM/c IgG positive test with negative findings other than CT scan)
During admission, she reported to be much better regarding her headaches after treatment with corticosteroids.
The right facial paralasis persisted with positive Romberg which was negative after several days of treatment with corticosteroids.
Neurosurgery was contacted for evaluation of cancer treatment.
At the ethical level, the following dilemma is raised, since family members, who are unaware of the immunodeficiency associated with HIV infection suffered by the patient, request that the patient is not informed about the current disease or the severity of the disease.
mentions the double silence pact, the family doctor who will continue to value him in successive consultations has an intermediate and communicative role to give the relevant explanations to the patient and family without talking directly about his pathology to us,
