This is an 11-month-old male infant, with no history of interest, who consults for presenting deviation of the oral commissure to the left for several days, and during▁crying cannot be completed closing the gap.
The only trigger is catarrhal symptoms, which have been recognized as a hypersensitivity reaction for a week.
No history of recent vaccination.
Physical examination showed good general condition, normal color and well perfused, eupneic, and normal cardiopulmonary auscultation. Besides the▁incipient data described, neurologically, good muscle tone is observed, with no alteration.
Very erythematous, non-bombed lesions are seen on endoscopy.
facial nerve palsy should be considered if it is a central (injury of the upper motor neuron) or peripheral (lower motor neuron), which will be distinguished by facial paralysis due to the involvement of the facial muscles
Most cases are idiopathic.
Second in frequency in pediatric age is the presence of mediate leukemia, followed by other infections caused by HSV-1 viruses, VZV (non-cancerous syndrome), infectious leukemia (cancer), other diseases (cancer), bleeding
Oral corticoids were initiated, assessed by ENT, transtympanic drainages were implanted, and when the clinical signs persisted on the third day, the left pericortical uptake was requested but showed no cerebellar bulbar contrast enhancement.
When a possible encephalomyelitis is present, an EEG is requested that is normal, as well as CSF cytobiochemistry, with negative oligoclonal bands; and IV corticoids are initiated at doses
It continues without improvement and appears as a new symptom inspiratory stridor, with polypnea, abundant sialorrhea, subcrecretory ACP, as well as occasional bilateral arousal episodes.
Afebrile at all times and without elevation of acute phase reactants.
A chest X-ray was performed.
At this time, with the data provided, the most probable diagnosis and most appropriate manephoma can be: a. It is a nosocomial viral meningitis, probably due to a hypersensitivity.
I request PCR for viral respiratory pathogens and nebulized budesonide.
b. Given its age, it can be a foreign body aspiration.
The airway should be checked with fibroscopy.
c. Probably it's a bronchospasm.
Salbutamol in camera.
d. It can be a right pneumonia with effusion.
I request chest ultrasound and start high-flow oxygen therapy.
e. Stridor may be related to peripheral paralysis.
Neuroimaging screening
Of these possibilities, the most probable diagnosis seems to be stridor.
MRI was repeated, showing thickening and hyperintensity of the lesion observed in the bulb and peduncle, which has increased in size, with restricted diffusion.
The study was completed by mass spectroscopy with a suggestive pattern of low-grade glial tumor of the brainstem.
The study shows problems with fluid intake and increased oral phase of thicker textures.
The stridor continues to progress, with severe respiratory distress (or “burn tapquipnea”) (55▁rpm), use of accessory musculature with stripping at the three levels, desaturation despite treading 4 more nostrils.
A chest X-ray was performed.
Due to the high risk of aspiration and signs of imminent respiratory failure, it was decided to intubate orotracheally with ETT No 4"5, with connection to mechanical ventilation.
A volume control modality is used, programming a volume (VTV) of 7 ml/kg, in which by performing an inspiratory prolongation maneuver we obtain the screen in the ventilator.
After informing the family in conjunction with Neurosurgery and the realization of the prognosis, a biopsy is performed to obtain an anatomopathological diagnosis, showing histopathology compatible with diffuse brainstem astrocytoma II; brainstem imaging.
The family is informed about the possibility of initiating chemotherapy with the aim of improving pharyngeal dysfunction, which they accept after consensus second opinion in a reference center.
A first extubation attempt failed to postpone the second attempt after the first cycle of chemotherapy as rescue with prior corticosteroid therapy, which is equally unsuccessful, was performed.
Sepsis was performed by placing a cannula 4"5 PED by the ENT, without incidents, and a home respirator was requested, instructing family members in its use and CPR techniques.
Contracystis prophylaxis was started.
Continue chemotherapy with 3.7L controls by leukocytes of Ontario, who three months later (17 months of age) needs to be readmitted to PICU for adenovirus pneumonia with Pseudomonas aeruginosa overinfection and Haemophilus influenzae associated bacteremia.
A cannula was changed to 5.5 PED, allowing improved ventilation.
Progressive improvement occurs after initiation of antibiotic therapy, with better quality of respiratory dynamics allowing the patient to return to home respirator in a week with good tolerance.
It continues to isolated episodes of desaturation in relation to breathlessness of the sober, which, due to its frequent and more repercussion, needs to be assembled with a family, being associated with a gamma spasm, two randomized clinical trials.
The patient continued to deteriorate progressively, maintaining palliative treatment, until four months later (21 months of age) she experienced an episode of sudden sleepiness, with no response to painful stimuli, a tendency to bradycardia with altered blood pressure in the upper limit, pupils in
Therapeutic effort is adecuated given the severity of the situation and the prognosis of the patient, starting morphine that increases as the assistance of the respirator decreases.
Finally, he died accompanied by his family.
