We report the case of a 48-year-old man who began with symptoms of frontalization and gait disorder, being referred to the Neurology service, with progressive worsening and loss of affective wheels, irritability, and consistent disinhibition behavior.
Blood analysis, serological study, Antinuclear Antibodies (ANA) and Neutrophil Anticytoplasmic (ANCA) and lumbar puncture were performed, without abnormalities.
A cervical and cranial Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) was requested, reflecting the presence of a focal diffuse rupture of the medullary tract without pathologic significance, and at the cranial level numerous hypointense T1 and hyperintense nuclei were identified.
Electromyography (EMG) showed signs of mixed polyneuropathy in the lower limbs, with data of low amplitude and reduced motor speed.
Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with Sitagliptin with
In addition, there was an inversion of the ratio of these AGCML with the beenic acid C22:0 (C26:0 for the diagnosis of 0.017 and X24:0 for laboratory diagnosis:22:0, 1.54, respectively).
To confirm this, a genetic study of ABCD1 was performed, observing the dissection in hemozygosis position c.1415_1416delAG giving a condom 26%83472 which leads to a premature loss of proteinX.
The patient was dietetically induced and testosterone and cortisol levels were determined in blood, being normal.
The severity of this entity is more severe in males hemozygote and lower in heterozygous women.
There is a deficit of beta perixisomal oxidation of AGCML, secondary to the accumulation of these (especially C26:0 and C24:0) in the central nervous system and spinal cord, fundamentally adrenal cortex.
This deficit is due to mutations in the ABCD1 gene (xq28) of chromosome X, which cause dysfunction of the ALDp protein (lignoceryl-CoA synthetase), which is fundamental in the AGC transport.
▁Phenotypic variability appears according to neurological involvement and age of onset: - Cerebral: the fastest progressive.
It affects between 2.5 and 12 years old, being rare in adolescents (<7%) or adults (<5%).
Moderate cognitive impairment, sensorineural deafness, cerebellar ataxia, hemiplegia, subclinical primary adrenal insufficiency, seizures and dementia appeared.
- Adenomyeloneuropathy (AMN): second and fourth decade.
Spastic paraparesis with gait disorders, sexual dysfunction and adrenal insufficiency was observed in 2/3 of the patients.
- Addison: around 10% of patients have adrenal insufficiency without brain involvement, although there is a risk of developing this condition.
- Heterozygous women: 50% have slowly progressive neurological involvement.
Adrenal insufficiency is rare.
The diagnosis is based on clinical manifestations, MRI, accumulation of serum AGCML, specifically C26:0 and C24:0, and inversion of the quotient with C22:0.
The most sensitive imaging test is MRI, which shows bilateral and symmetrical involvement of the white matter at the central level.
Hyperintensity was observed in T2, especially in the temporo-occipital region and corpus callosum.
According to the location of the lesion, it is classified as: 1.
Parietooccipital lobe and splenium of the corpus callosum.
2.
Frontal lobe and knee of the corpus callosum.
3.
Frontopontin and corticospinal fluid
4.
Enough.
5.
Frontal lobe and parietooccipital combination.
The only useful treatment for preventing neurological progression is allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) from bone marrow, cord blood or peripheral blood.
The main drawback lies in the morbidity and mortality of the procedure.
Therefore, gene therapy has been proposed, transferring the ABCD1 gene into hematopoietic stem cells by means of a lentiviral vector of the HIV virus, although further studies are needed to disseminate its application.
HSCT is indicated in the presence of new lesions, increased lesions already present on MRI, or the appearance of new neurological symptoms.
