Anamnesis A 37-year-old male, with no relevant medical or surgical history, who came to the emergency department due to a sudden clinical picture of unilateral mydriasis and blurred vision while working on computer.
On taping his eyes, first and then the other, he noticed that with his left eye he saw worse.
Your wife said she had the left pupil.
No history of headache, no nausea or vomiting.
No loss of strength, no alteration.
The patient was admitted to the Neurology Department.
Once hospitalized, she was assessed and re-interrupted by the neurologist.
The patient said that prior to the beginning of the described clinic he had been handling plants.
He reported having gardening activities very often at his house and having gardening activities.
However, the afternoon prior to admission was in contact with a new plant, which had never before been manipulated, with flowers in the form of purple bell and berry black berries and bays.
He remarked that he had been cutting some fleshy leaves, and that without washing his hands he touched his face and placed his glasses.
After 15 minutes he began with the signs and symptoms that motivated his assistance to the emergency department.
Physical examination revealed no particularities.
Neurological examination revealed anisocoria with reactive mydriasis of the left pupil.
The rest of the neurological examination showed no alterations.
▁Complementary tests • General analysis: blood count, biochemistry and basic coagulation within normal limits.
• Chest X-ray: no evidence of acute pleuropulmonary disease.
• Cranial computed tomography: normal.
• Pilocarpine test: absence of miosis in response to 1% pilocarpine.
Diagnosis Drug mydriasis secondary to contact with Atropa belladone.
Treatment and evolution suspicion of mydriasis by contact with plants, the patient was observed.
After giving him photographs of the different species of plants, it was confirmed that the responsible plant was Atropa belladona.
The evolution was favorable.
After 48 hours, she presented complete recovery of visual deficit and normalization of pupil diameter and reflex response.
