A 59-year-old man with only known history of bicuspid aortic valve with fusion of left and right coronary leaflets that causes moderate-severe aortic regurgitation (ultrasound echocardiography) 6 months before the current episode.
She has periodic follow-ups due to cardiology and has no associated dyspnea, and does not take any medication regularly.
The patient lives in rural areas and works in construction.
He usually performs excursive cycling, having recently performed the Santiago Camino, having contact with some animal, mainly dogs, cows, but without close contact.
He has no domestic animals, and has not made recent trips abroad.
The patient presented with a two-month history of profuse sweating and dysthermic sensation of the lumbar region, generalized asthenia and pain.
For this reason she came to the emergency department for evaluation, where she was requested a positive Rose Bengala test, starting treatment with external drugs 100mg Diseases/12h and rifampicin 900mg/24h and then referred for consultation
Basic laboratory tests were performed in the consultation, and although the clinic was initially compatible, although doubtful due to the absence of direct contact with cattle animals, and due to the low frequency of this entity in our environment Brucelun blood extraction was performed in recent years.
In the anamnesis and exploration by organs and apparatus, no remarkable data are recorded except a systolic murmur of aortic predominance already known, without stigmata suggestive of endocarditis.
Since the patient reported clinical improvement after treatment in the emergency department, it was decided to keep him waiting for the results, which were finally negative.
The patient discontinued treatment due to gastrointestinal intolerance before the next visit to the clinic.
Also, due to the clinical back-lumbar pain referred, and in the initial suspicion of brucellosis, it was decided to perform a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that did not find any signs of spondylodiscitis.
During the follow-up consultation, the patient presented clinical symptoms, after discontinuation of the previously mentioned antibiotic treatment, reappearing daily fever of up to 38.5oC bacteremia, sweating and finally completing any specific blood collection for organs, completing general▁malaise, and▁malaise.
Differential diagnosis This is a patient with fever of intermediate duration (FDI), or even prolonged duration, if we count the period prior to antibiotic treatment received, without a clear focus, so we will focus on the differential diagnosis of 20% FDI.
Considering the epidemiological context of the patient and his personal history, the causes to consider are: 1.
Bacterial infections: A human fever stands out due to dengue fever supposed to be responsible for typhella typicus and another human fever caused by Salmonella bootiosis, a typantematic fever is more frequent in countries of the Mediterranean basin.
2.
Viral infections: Provoked by CMV, Epstein-major virus, parvovirus B19, ESR 6.7 and 8, HIV.
3.
Protozoal infections: Toxoplasmosis is the most common.
4.
Localized infections: Intraabdominal abscesses, infective endocarditis.
5.
Autoimmune diseases: Adult Still's disease, mainly due to its usual clinical presentation as a fever.
6.
Neoplasms: can occur with relative frequency as fever without focus renal cell carcinoma and lymphoma.
7.
Miscellaneous: Subacute thyroiditis.
During hospitalization, several complementary tests were requested, as detailed below.
Serology for Brucella spp: negative for Ig M and Ig G; serology for Coxiella spp., human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), syphilis, hepatitis A, B, C and immunodeficiency virus negative
IgG for CMV and EBV positive, IgM negative.
Analytically, there was an increase in acute phase reactants including C-reactive protein (75 mg/L), procalcitonin (0.38 ng/mL), rheumatoid factor (1473 ng/mL), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (18.6 mm).
Autoimmunity studies (including ANAs, ANSDs, immunoglobulins and lymphocyte subpopulations) and IGRA were negative.
As for imaging, computed tomography (CT) of non-pelvic cancer was performed to rule out localized infections (intra-abdominal abscesses) or occult (mainly lymphoma).
Asymmetrium, hemocultives were extracted, which were positive for Streptococcus sanguinis (viridans group) resistant to different C.MI strains at penicillin 0.03 mcg/ml in 6 serial blood cultures in 3 days.
First analytical results were reasonably ruled out for most viral or bacterial etiologies (Coxiella ssp, VE) ssp, HIV, syphilis, Hepatitis A, B and CMV,
Temporal sclerosis was diagnosed after an initial diagnosis of brucellosis; a second negative Rose of Bengal, three so serological at different times, and a negative MRI for spondylodyscitis.
Likewise, the study of negative autoimmunity allowed us to reject an autoimmune etiology (mainly adult Still's disease, since it did not meet the preceptive diagnostic criteria of Cush or Yamagul's rash plus a probable▁thorax test results).
Finally, the thyroid function study was normal, ruling out a subacute thyroiditis.
ecchymosis was suspected in patients with recurrent infective endocarditis with positive typical isolated microorganism in a patient with previous valvulopathy. treatment with ceftriaxone 2 grams every 24 hours and gentamicin showed signs adjusted to t
These findings were confirmed by transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), which showed no new findings suggestive of endocarditis.
In addition to the negativity of TTE and TEE, CT was performed in which no malignancies or pathological lymphadenopathies were observed, and no abscesses were observed in any location.
The only finding was the presence of several splenic infarcts.
At this point, the initial suspicion of endocarditis becomes even more important when a septic embolic phenomenon occurred (we would take 1 major and 3 minor criteria) as compared to a previous non-specific PET program, so a second week is decided.
Finally, a second TEE was performed, which showed a vegetation with a maximum size of 7-8 mm compatible with subacute infective endocarditis on the native bicuspid aortic valve.
Final diagnosis Aortic stenosis due to S. sanguinis on bicuspid valve
