A 58-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus and depression under treatment.
She consulted due to a clinical picture of about two years of progressive cognitive deterioration.
Upon admission, the patient was hemodynamically stable and afflicted.
Neurological examination revealed temporal-spatial disorientation, attention deficit, memory impairment and mild anisocoria, with no other neurological focus.
Laboratory tests revealed normal renal and hepatic function, normal levels of thiamine and vitamin B12, and no elevated inflammatory parameters.
Diagnosis: Neurosyphilis with manifestations of the meningovascular and neuropsychiatric forms. Result A brain MRI was performed showing a slow brain lesion real-stage signal-to-normal diffusion-weighted, but with a T2-weighted restriction pattern.
Also, signal hyperintensity is observed in T2 and T2 FLAIR sequences at cortico-subcortical level in the left mesial temporal region, compromising the uncus and extending to the anterior temporal pole, but with similar volume.
A moderate diffuse brain parenchyma is evident, objectified by a larger size of the ventricles and greater amplitude of the cortical grooves than expected for the patient's age.
Slow ischemic lesion stage right diffusion-weighted lesion hyperintense on T2 FLAIR map and hypointense on T1, which shows enhancement after Gadolinium administration and mild signal hyperintensity on ADC sequence.
Signal hyperintensity in T2 FLAIR sequences at cortico-subcortical level in the left mesial temporal region, compromising the uncus and extending to the anterior temporal pole, with minor changes to the right side.
The lesion described presents mild signal hypointensity in T1 sequences, without enhancement after Gadolinium administration.
Lumbar puncture was performed showing clear CSF with 5 leukocytes / mm3 (100% mononuclear), hyperproteinorrhachia (256 mg/dL), normal glycorrhachia (62 mg/dL) and Gram staining negative.
Taking into account the brain MRI findings, PCR for herpes simplex virus type 1 and 2 was performed in CSF that were negative and VDRL and FTA-ABS resulted from VDRL 1:64lution.
An electroencephalogram performed the same day showed slow baseline rhythm, without▁epileptiform activity.
The study of HIV infection is negative.
A diagnosis of neurosyphilis was made and treatment with Penicillin G 24 mU/day for 14 days was established, with which the patient presented partial improvement of his cognitive impairment and resolution of anisocoria.
The patient is discharged after completing the antibiotic treatment.
