Anamnesis A 27-year-old woman with a 4-year history of iron deficiency anemia treated with oral iron was admitted with fever for 14 days, accompanied by intense asthenia,▁malaise and dry cough.
The patient also showed localized lymphadenopathy at the axillary level and in the left parietal bone.
The patient consulted the emergency department due to sudden appearance of asymptomatic skin lesions in the last 24 hours at the upper limbs, trunk, face and to a lesser extent in the lower limbs.
The patient denied recent exotic trips, risky sexual relations, insect bites or other relevant history.
The patient had already presented a similar condition two years before, in the form of general▁malaise, arthromyalgia, headache and appearance of a right laterocervical adenopathy.
In the complementary tests of this episode stood out only iron deficiency anemia and elevated acute phase reactants.
The rest of the blood tests were normal and serology tests were negative.
Physical dorsum showed multiple erythema-edematous plaques of erythematous-violaceous tone, oval, some worse delimited, predominantly on the back of both arms, ventral aspect of the thigh forearm, thigh lesion.
There were no oropharyngeal lesions, except for the saburral tongue.
In the left costal pair, there were two subcutaneous masses of hard consistency,▁barely displaceable, somewhat painful, of approximately 2 cm in diameter.
Erythematoedematous lesions were also observed on the surface.
There was no lymphatic course suggestive of lymphangitis or associated soft tissue infection.
▁Complementary tests In the complementary tests initially performed in the Emergency Department, anemia with Hb 9.9 and mild▁lymphopenia (700linf/μl) stood out.
Serology (HIV, hepatotropic virus, CMV, Epstein-Mycoplasma Parvovirus B19, syphilis, Coxiella virus) performed were negative.
Subsequently, alterations in the autoimmune profile were detected with the presence of positive ANA titer 1/640 (mottled pattern), negative DNA, anti RO positive>100 (range: 0-25 RN), positive SM 01005).
The CT scan showed bilateral axillary and multiple subpectoral lymphadenopathy, mild hepatomegaly, mild pleural effusion and thickening of interlobular septa.
The nodule described adjacent to the infero-external quadrant of the left breast was more suggestive of necrotic adenopathy than of a mammary nodule.
With these findings, a biopsy-extirpation of the adenopathic mass located in the costal pair was performed.
The patient had multifocal necrotizing lymphadenitis without granulomas or associated infectious agents.
Immunohistochemical staining showed predominance of CD3/CD8 T lymphocytes in necrotic areas with presence of B-granules positive cells and CD68 histiocytes, together with occasional plasma cells.
The rest of the▁lymphoid markers B and T ruled out the presence of neutrophilic and Reed-Sterberg cells.
These findings were consistent with the diagnosis of multifocal necrotizing lymphadenitis or Kikuchi disease.
On the other hand, skin biopsy showed an epidermis with focal liquenoid changes, with vacuolar degeneration of the basal layer and necrotic▁keratinocytes at these levels.
In the dermis, perivascular and interstitial▁lymphocytic inflammatory infiltrate stood out, without neutrophils or▁eosinophils prominently in the middle and deep dermis.
Diagnosis Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease or histiocytic necrotizing lymphadenitis.
Treatment Prednisone was prescribed at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg/day, as well as symptomatic treatment with Paracetamol.
Ev during the first five days, fever peaks up to 39° with associated mild dyspnea and general▁malaise.
The skin lesions progressed in the first week towards a more contuse aspect.
Subsequently, they acquired a more residual macular appearance until complete resolution.
The patient was discharged after two weeks with resolution of the systemic and cutaneous lesions.
