This is a 45-year-old woman with an indigent social problem.
No known drug allergies.
An important smoker (accumulated smoking 40 pack-years), with considerable alcohol consumption and exadicts to inhaled drugs.
The personal history included: infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) diagnosed in 1981 with 18 years of age, chronic liver disease due to hepatitis C virus (HCV), severe bronchial pancreatitis with hepatitis B (HBV), intervened
Previous history Since the diagnosis of HIV infection until 2005 the patient does not regularly monitor the patient in consultation, not receiving antiretroviral therapy (GAGA).
In 2005 (3 years before the above-mentioned episode), she was in stage B3 with AIDS defining criteria (herpes zoster, oropharyngeal candidiasis) and had a CD4 count of 79 HIV/μg
At six months, FTC + TDF + Saquinavir/Ritonavir (SQV/r) was modified due to poor adherence and poor adherence to follow-up treatment.
Only on one occasion between 2005 and 2008 had viral load below 50 copies/ml, with CD4 count always below 200 cells/mm3.
In this interval, the patient required multiple hospital admissions in the Infectious Diseases Department due to asthma exacerbation with bronchial hyperreactivity in the context of non-condensing respiratory infection, receiving intravenous therapy with permanent descending oral corticosteroid therapy.
Despite this, the patient continued to smoke actively and persisted in alcohol consumption and occasionally other toxic substances inhaled.
At the time of the current episode, the patient's usual medication included TDF + FTC + SQV/r, inhaled + for prophylaxis with budesonide and otherbutamol, prednisone, metoxadone.
Current disease The patient came to the emergency room in May 2008 due to a disorder of behavior and language associated with loss of strength in the right hemibody since the day before.
Feeling dysthermic not heated in the past few days
She denied headache, nausea or vomiting, and did not present any other associated symptoms in the anamnesis by organs and devices.
Physical examination showed a tendency to hypertension (155/88 mmHg), tachypnea 123 beats per minute, febricular with 37.8oC, and eupneic with an arterial oxygen saturation of 96%.
He is conscious, disoriented in time, space and person, hardly collaborating.
Regular general condition
Good hydrated and perfused, and normal-colored.
Custoidal habit.
There were no head or neck alterations.
The heart sounds are rhythmic and regular, without murmurs, hypoventilation presenting generalized irregular features on auscultation.
The abdomen is blade and depressible, without pain due to palpation, masses or organomegaly.
In the lower limbs, pedal pulses are present and there are no edemas.
Neurological examination revealed cutaneous dysorientation, non-plantar dyslor, bilateral mydrriatic pupils reactive to light, motor aphasia, conserved external movements focal bilateral flexor hemicollaboration central right hemitend.
▁Complementary tests No significant alterations were observed in blood count or biochemistry in the laboratory tests taken from the emergency department, except for mild hyponatremia (sodium 131 mmol/l) and ethanol levels of 10 mg/dl.
Venous gas and coagulation are normal.
The rapid urine analysis gave positive results for cocaine and opioids, also presenting positivity in the visual strip for hemoglobin (5+), urobilinogen (3+) and leukocytes (2+).
Blood samples were taken and subsequently negative.
The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with 100o axis without blockades or repolarization alterations.
Chest X-ray showed only a small residual infiltrate in the left upper lobe.
A computed tomography (CT) of the skull was requested, which showed "a left frontal lesion of nodular morphology, ill-defined, about 2.5 cm in diameter and 4 cm in the following section, without being able to distinguish whether it was a single peripheral lesion or a single lesion.
With the data obtained from the exploration and the complementary tests, she was admitted to the hospital ward of Infectious Diseases with the syndromic diagnosis of multiple space occupying lesion (SLO) with an empirically immunosuppressive effect mass in HIV patient.
Differential diagnosis In our case, we present the case of a patient with several cerebral LOEs in a state of significant immunosuppression due to stage B3 HIV infection with virological failure, along with corticosteroid therapy for long-term use and abuse.
After imaging tests that show lesions that produce mass effect, diffuse multifocal alterations of the central nervous system (CNS) are relegated to the background, as would be HIV encephalopathy (including tuberculosis abscess primary CNS toxoplasmosis or focal leukoencephalomalacia CDMP), thinking of toxoplasmosis or primary CNS infection
In an immunosuppressed HIV patient the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis is difficult, since frequently there is no increase in immunoglobulin M (IgM) or large variations in the titers of immunoglobulin G (IgG), so it is not established a diagnosis.
On the other hand, imaging test characteristics are an excellent tool to guide the diagnosis.
Toxoplasmosis in CT is usually manifested as multiple lesions, hypodense nodular enhancement in the basal▁ganglia, thalamus and cortico-subcortical region, with typical ring enhancement after intravenous contrast administration (highly sensitive).
At MRI, T2 and FLAIR sequences show the target sign in the lesions, with a hyperintense center that correlates with necrosis, a hypointense peripheral inflammatory ring that correlates with the surrounding area edema.
T1 sequences with gadolinium show a prominent ring of the inflammatory zone.
Lesions usually present increased diffusion in diffusion sequences, spectroscopy usually shows high lipid and lactate peaks.
The blood volume relative to the lesion is decreased.
Oedema and bleeding are commonly associated with these lesions.
The main differential diagnosis with multiple ring-enhancement lesions is primary CNS lymphoma.
In favor of lymphoma is the extension subprimary hypermobility, restriction in diffusion (cellularity), involvement of the corpus callosum and the peak of choline.
The relative blood volume in lymphomatous lesions is increased.
In addition to these more frequent entities, in the HIV patient, the possibility that lesions with enhancement may correspond to brain abscesses of bacterial etiology cannot be left behind in the differential diagnosis.
E mer. anti-tuberculosis drugs prescribed in the ward, due to the characteristics of the lesions, empirical treatment was initiated obligatorily for▁inpatient treatment with broad-spectrum anti-toxometriosis IgG, later treatment was prescribed.
Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was requested.
According to the radiology report, cerebral lesions occupying polylobulated space with cystic component in the left frontal lobe are observed with significant mass effect and perilesional edema, which cause mild left ventricular obliteration with anterior frontal herniation of the left ventricle.
The lesions are low signal in T1 and FLAIR sequences and high in T2, with diffusion restriction and marked contrast uptake of annular morphology.
The largest ones measure 3 and 1.8 cm respectively and there are other smaller ones of similar nature in contact with the lateral and posterior aspect.
The rest of the parenchyma has a normal signal.
The lesions described raise the question of abscesses as a possible diagnosis (tuberculosis?)
and less likely due to signal characteristics and location, lymphoma or toxoplasma".
After two weeks of treatment there is no clinical or radiological response, fever persists with headache, aphasia and hemiparesis, in addition to suffering an episode characterized by surgical intervention.
A left frontal craniotomy with duramater tension was performed.
The abscess capsule that reaches the ventricle is removed but is not open to it.
Puncture and evacuation of the pus (30 ml) was performed, and removal of a fragment measuring 30x30x2 mm was performed together with an irregular fragment of purulent surface with a cerebraloid appearance of 35x20x15 mm.
Samples are sent for microbiological and histopathological analysis.
Gram stain of the microbiological sample showed branched Gram bacilli compatible with National Notifiable Diseases. Two weeks later, the bacteriological culture showed positive bacteriological cultures from the philosophic philosophic community.
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) culture for Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome is negative.
The pathology report describes a brain abscess with peripheral fibrovascular proliferation.
Despite the addition of appropriate specific antibiotic treatment (amikacin 500 mg every 12 hours for carbapenem synergism) the patient already presents torpid evolution, developed post-surgical respiratory motor failure, global sequels and progresses after major complications.
Final diagnosis Brain abscesses due to No pharyngitis in severely immunocompromised patients with HIV infection, prolonged corticosteroid treatment and drug abuse.
