Anamnesis A 74-year-old woman, hypertensive, dyslipidemic and with chronic heart failure, in treatment with a mild episode of upper limb vomiting, enalapril and lovastatin, came to progressive second neuroexion.
Family members also reported memory failures, delusional ideas and visual and auditory disorders.
He had not presented fever or other accompanying symptoms.
Because of the rapid clinical evolution, hospital admission was scheduled.
Physical examination was normal.
He had good blood pressure and heart rate.
Neurological manifestations: the patient was conscious, disoriented in space.
Impairment
He had short-term memory and fixation deficits.
He named and repeated well, but failed to understand simple orders.
The calculation was conserved.
He had isolated myoclonus in the left arm, spontaneous at rest.
The cranial nerves, strength, sensitivity, coordination, standing and gait were normal.
Additional tests • Blood count and coagulation: normal.
Biochemistry: normal sodium 123, osm 243, TSH 7.42, T3 and T4 levels, all other parameters were normal.
Antinuclear antibodies, RF, normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
Oligoclonal bands in spike, electrophoresis, B12 and folic acid were normal.
Serology for human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B and C virus, syphilis and Borrelia were negative.
• Normal electrocardiogram.
• Chest X-ray: vascular pattern consistent with chronic heart failure
• Cerebrospinal fluid: 25 leukocytes (lymphocytes), normal glucose and protein binding.
No microorganisms were observed in gram.
PCR of neurotropic virus was negative.
ADA negative.
The cytology showed chronic inflammation.
• Electroencephalogram: pseudoperiodic slow potential sprouts accompanied by suppression of brain activity in the right hemisphere.
• Cranial computed tomography (CT): no pathological findings.
• Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the skull (at baseline): normal.
Cranial MRI (at one month after admission): extensive hyperintense lesion in FLAIR and T2, affecting the right temporal and occipital lobe of cortical predominance with hippocampal involvement, which showed diffusion restriction in left hippocampus.
Cranial magnetic resonance imaging, FLAIR sequence: extensive hyperintense lesion affecting the right temporal and occipital lobe, predominantly cortical.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diffusion-weighted sequence (DWI): signal restriction in the right parietal lobe.
• Body computed tomography (CT): thyroid nodule, with no other relevant findings.
• Thyroid ultrasound: thyroid nodule with appearance.
Thyroid needle aspiration (FNA) ruled out malignancy.
The patient was evaluated in the endocrinology service, and levothyroxine treatment was initiated for subclinical hypothyroidism.
• Negative antithyroid antibodies. Negative antineuronal antibodies (during admission).
Anti-LGI1 positive (chronic cough)
Diagnosis of Encephalitismbica by anti-LGI1 antibodies
Treatment and evolution On the day, the patient presented with a middle disconnection with ocular chlonies, automatism, head-to-left fluctuating, left-sided episodes of partial seizures, upper extremities floating, two episodes of medication.
These▁epileptic seizures were repeated, affecting the level of consciousness, and she was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit with a status diagnosis.
After 24 hours, the patient showed partial improvement of consciousness level and went to the Neurology ward.
With the suspected diagnosis of probable subacute-chronic encephalopathy, treatment was initiated with methylprednisolone 1 g/24 h i.v., which was maintained for five days and a descending pattern of▁steroids.
Risk factors associated with HIV infection were:
Infection-negative mg/8sp) and phenytoin 100 mg/8h was maintained. The second cranial MRI performed confirmed the involvement of the temporal lobe in a patient with systemic encephalopathy that had not been detected at MRI.
The patient had a torpid evolution and was admitted three months later.
He had significant fluctuations in consciousness, sensory motor deficit in the left hemibody and seizures that required antiepileptic treatment adjustments on several occasions (levrace, clonazepam, carbamazepine).
Hyponatremia was also corrected.
At discharge, the patient was alert, oriented in time and space, with a coherent and better structured discourse than at admission, but recent memory failures, left hemiparesis (4+/5), with left hemihypoanopsia persisted.
MMSE at discharge 28.
The patient has been regularly seen in the Neurology Department since then.
Approximately one year after admission, serum onconeuronal antibodies were obtained from the Centre of Paraneoplastic Disorders of the Pennsylvania University (Pesildelphia positivity), and anti-LGI antibodies were detected.
Since then two years have passed, in which the patient has followed revisions in the Neurology consultation, has experienced progressive improvement, has not presented▁epileptic seizures again, although left memory failure and hemiparesis are maintained.
To date, no tumor has been observed.
