A 47-year-old man with no personal history of interest was admitted to the Emergency Department in health transport, without companions.
The patient presented an acute confusional syndrome accompanied by a fever of 38oC, which could not establish a chronology of the symptoms due to the neurological status of the patient.
Neurological examination revealed right-sided nystagmus and inability to look at the left side, as well as hyporeactive midmyocardial pupils, without meningism, and with no other signs of intracranial hypertension.
In the rest of the physical examination, cardiorespiratory, abdominal and limb, there was no significant change at the time of the initial assessment.
Ceftriaxone 2g every 24 hours was administered empirically, and the patient was treated conservatively with radiation therapy 800 mg every 8 hours.
The urgent laboratory tests requested on arrival to the emergency department showed leukocytosis of 21,650 cells/μL with 80% neutrophilia, normal in the other two series of blood count.
Biochemistry showed a random blood glucose level of 169 mg/dL, with normal renal function and normal creatinine levels, as well as CRP 2.5 mg/dL.
Coagulation was normal.
Venous gasses with pH 7.31, 36 mmHg, pO2 67 mmHg, HCO3 18.1 mEq/L, and lactate 5.2 mmol/L.
Determination of toxic blood, urine and gastric juice negative.
A cranial CAT scan was performed and no significant alterations were detected.
With these results, a lumbar puncture was performed, with the removal of clear cerebrospinal fluid with normal pressure, with the following data in the cytochemistry: proteins 133 mg/dL, glucose 77 mg/dL, leukocytes 77 with mononuclear leukocytes.
While still in the Emergency Room, the patient has a sudden worsening of the general condition, so that after administration of a Critical Care Unit, where he suffers a tonic-clonic partial crisis in the left upper limb with secondary generalization.
After the episode with orotracheal intubation (concoma situation with post-critical state), she presented 6 points on the Glasgow scale, so it was decided to intubate systolic blood pressure, connection to mechanical ventilation and ICU admission, where she also needed
During his stay in the ICU, the patient recovered hemodynamic stability with the use of▁norepinephrine,▁tolerating the progressive withdrawal until its suspension.
Similarly, there was a progressive improvement in the level of consciousness, which allowed the removal of mechanical ventilation and extubation, with progressive improvement in cognitive level until reaching Glasgow 15.
The antibiotic regimen initiated in the emergency department was maintained and treatment with phenytoin was initiated.
Differential diagnosis of a patient with an acute confusional syndrome, motor focus and fever the first diagnosis to consider, due to its severity and prognostic involvement, is the existence of an infection of the central nervous system, fundamentally of the
In our environment, in immunocompetent patients, viral encephalitis stands out, being the most frequent cause secondary to enterovirus, and the one with the highest morbidity and mortality the herpes simplex virus type 1, not being able to rule out other viral agents.
There are other notable causes of meningoencephalitis with clear fluid, such as some bacterial infections (My tuberculosis, Trepon systemic vasculitis, systemic sarcoidosis, venous, etc.), or fungal diseases, or other non-infectious causes.
Ev due to the satisfactory evolution of the patient in the ICU, without recurrence of the seizure activity, was assigned to the▁inpatient unit of Infectious Diseases.
In the detailed neurological examination performed at that time, the existence of anisocoria with right pupil mydriasis, scarcely reactive to light and moderately to accommodation normal ankle-brachial reflex muscles persisting moderate to moderate base pair reflex; also decreased flexor-brachial reflex with decreased hand balance decreased muscle function 5, with normal.
The rest of the physical examination showed no alteration of interest.
During her stay in the hospital, transthoracic echocardiography was requested, with no significant structural changes or signs of infective endocarditis.
Venous hemocultives due to negative emergency arrival.
A brain nuclear magnetic resonance with contrast leptomeningeal was also performed, without parenchymal alterations; the resonance of the polygon 3mm to the left middle cerebral artery was observed at the level of the saccular aneurysm.
The electroencephalographic study showed a focal activity theta intermittent right temporal.
The microbiological study requested in the emergency room of the cerebrospinal fluid was negative, both the usual culture and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of herpes simplex virus (HSV) 1 and 2, enterovirus and varicella-zoster virus.
In addition, we requested serology of lees with the following result: RPR 1/128, syphilis Ig G + Ig M positive, and FTAABS positive.
These findings underwent a new lumbar puncture with persistent hyperproteinorrhachia and pleocytosis with predominance of mononuclear cells, negativity of new PCR for ESR, and detection of positive RPR in cerebrospinal fluid.
With the diagnosis of neurolúes, since the patient was allergic to penicillin and there was no option to perform monitoring of seizures, treatment with ceftriaxone was continued for 14 days, with a marked clinical improvement of the patient.
Final diagnosis Neurolúes: syphilitic meningitis versus meningovascular syphilis.
