A 75-year-old male without known drug allergies or toxic habits.
She had a history of hypertension, peptic ulcer disease, polypharmacy and right ocular prosthesis.
She received annual influenza vaccination and was treated with enalapril, chlorthalidone and chlorthalidone.
She was admitted for two weeks, when she returned from a trip to Benidorm, coughing and low arthritis in lower limbs, increasing dyspnea and chest pain with mechanical characteristics, as well as progressively incapacitating low back pain with weakness.
Abdominal pain, fever, dysthermia, vomiting or dysuria.
She had been treated with corticosteroids and analgesics for days without improvement.
Physical examination revealed conscious and oriented, slightly brachypsychic, eupneic and affine, well hydrated and perfused.
Upon arrival at the Emergency Room, a low-grade fever was observed.
Oxygen saturation was 91% with FiO2 0.21.
No neurological focality, neck stiffness or meningeal signs.
Weakness and pain when mobilizing the right limbs, more intense in the lower limb
Cardiorespiratory arrest: rhythmic with normal frequency, very weak tones without murmurs, rocks or extracts; globally decreased vesicular murmur with base crackles.
Globulous abdomen, blade and depressible, slightly painful to the consolidation in a generalized way, with normal intestinal sounds.
Pustular posts and trunk scratching.
Lower limbs showed no edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
The following complementary tests were performed: A blood count with hemoglobin 13.8 g/dL, leukocytes 16.880/mm3, neutrophils 92%, platelets 88,000/mm3.
Coagulation: prothrombin activity 69%, fibrinogen 12. g/L, ÷ 2845 ng/mL.
GOT 93 U/L, GPT 137 U/L, GGT 267 U/L, amylase 126 U/L, normal rest PCR: 410 mg/l.
VSG 133 mm/h.
Procalcitonin 1.8 ng/ml.
Proteinogram: increased alpha-globulins and polyclonal hypergemmaglobulinemia Immunoglobulins: increased IgG and IgA.
Immunofixation on three occasions normal.
Tumor markers (AFP, CEA, Ca-19.9 and PSA) were normal.
Immunology: ANA and anti-DNA negative.
ANCA were positive with atypical perinuclear pattern on two occasions, with negative pANCA and c-ANCA.
Thyroid profile: pituitary frenulum (TSH 0.22 with normal free T4).
Two blood cultures were negative, as well as urine pneumococcal and Legionella antigenuria.
Urinary sediment showed bacteriuria without leukocyturia with presence of nitrites and microhematuria.
An electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia as the only finding.
Chest X-ray showed bilateral peripheral infiltrates, and dorsolumbar spine x-ray showed degenerative signs of arthrosis, with no other relevant findings.
Chest radiography: bilateral peripheral infiltrates.
pulmonary infiltrates or pulmonary infiltrates should be ruled out, chest pain should be ruled out low oxygen saturation, as well as cystic fibrosis and pulmonary infiltrates in a patient with pulmonary immo
Given the intensity of the symptoms and the findings of the complementary tests performed, it was decided to admit infectious diseases with clinical judgment of bilateral cavitated infiltrates suggestive of multilobar pneumonia and empirical antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin.
On admission, CURB-65 and FINE scales were performed, obtaining a high mortality risk score in both.
Chest CT angiography c/c: multiple alveolar infiltrates distributed bilaterally, some with transformation into cystic cavities.
Differential diagnosis The differential diagnosis of cavitated pulmonary nodules constitutes a great challenge in which the clinical, iconography and laboratory results are crucial for the definitive diagnosis.
Our patient was admitted due to pulmonary cavitary lesions with a bilateral distribution of oligosymptomatic course together with acute onset lumbar pain.
Although it was suspected that the etiology of the clinical picture was infectious, given the scarcity of symptoms in contrast to the great radiological affectation, other causes could not be ruled out, among which are: Infections: The cavitated lung lesions are usually produced.
The main etiology is bacterial, especially anerobes that are part of the flora of the oral cavity (Prevotella spp., other streptococcus spp. and Fuptng spp.), and less frequently anaerobes.
Bacteria that can produce monomicroscopic abscess include Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Burkholderia pseudomallei, Haemophilus influenzae type B, Legionellainomyces spp, Actkholderia spp., and nontuberculosis spp.
Other non-bacterial pathogens can also manifest as cryptococcal infections (Histoplasma capsulatum, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Coccidioides spp., Opportunist mucor
In the case of diffuse aspergillosis, the upper radiological opacities depending on the form of the disease and the immunological status of the patient; one of the most frequently observed findings is the development of cavitated lesions of the large alveolar wall, single
Mycobacterium tuberculosis deserves special mention.
The most common manifestation (40% of cases) is the presence of infiltrates in the lung parenchyma with multiple satellite nodules and cavitated lesions.
These findings are preferentially located in the upper and apical lobes of the lower lobes, with cavities presenting internal walls that can be both secular and gross and most irregular segments (most irregular).
On the other hand, the relative frequency of tuberculous spondylodyscitis is 15-25%, being more frequent in the lower dorsal spine, although it can affect the lumbar spine, as well as affect several▁vertebrae and cause neurological symptoms.
Other nontuberculous mycobacteria (Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium kansasii) may also develop cavitations.
When the location of pulmonary nodules is multiple and predominantly peripheral or subpleural in different phases of cavitation, it is important to rule out a septic embolism etiology.
Radiographically, it manifests as nodular pulmonary opacities with a tendency to cavitation, abscesses and pulmonary infarctions.
They are usually secondary to bacteremia or endocarditis on right heart valves that send the pathogen to different locations.
Complications of septic embolism include vertebral osteomyelitis and septic arthritis.
The possibility of septic arthritis should be considered when multiple axial skeleton is affected, especially when the responsible germ is Staphylococcus aureus.
Spondylodyscitis occurs more frequently in the lumbar spine and, in the absence of surgical intervention, it is almost exclusively seeded by a pathogenic pathway.
In our environment, the main infectious etiologies are: pyogenic bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus (40-65%), coagulase-negative staphylococci, beta bacteriaceae, and other gram-negative bacilli and streptococcus
The initial imaging study may be negative when the presentation is acute, so if the symptoms persist, the tests should be repeated.
On the other hand, these lesions may also have a non-infectious etiology, including pulmonary vascular pathology as the differential diagnosis in cavitated lesions secondary to pulmonary infarction.
They occur in 10% of cases and are caused by small thrombi obliterating segmental or subsegmental vessels.
They usually present peripheral and multiple distributions and can cause an intense inflammatory response.
In this context, symptoms of deep venous thrombosis may appear, which may manifest as low back pain or lower limbs depending on the level of involvement.
On the other hand, there are numerous rheumatologic diseases that present pulmonary manifestations at the beginning or in the course of the disease, however, the presence of cavitated nodules is unusual.
The exception is Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), necrotizing systemic vasculitis that affects the upper and lower respiratory tract.
Radiologically, it manifests with multiple transient and recurrent bilateral masses/ nodules, which can cavitate either by necrosis itself or by arterial occlusion, usually in the absence of treatment.
Cavitated lung lesions have been described in other diseases such as primary amyloidosis, ankylosing spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, polyarteritis nodosa, and long-term infectious lupus erythematosus, always.
All of them may present musculoskeletal pathology or associated neuropathies.
In relation to the worst causes, the prognosis is usually the only pulmonary lesions that appear cavitated, in most cases correspond to a bronchogenic carcinoma, which is cavitated in 10-15% of cases, which is associated with a disease.
Of the different histological types, squamous cell carcinoma is the one that most frequently cavitates3.
It is usually a spiculated, variable-sized lesion with thick (> 4mm) and irregular walls, associated with a mass of soft parts and other findings such as lymphadenopathy, invasion of non-contrast structures.
Some Kaposi's lymphomas and sarcomas may also present with cavitated lesions, especially in HIV-infected population, whose lesions are usually present in small numbers and preferably in the lower lobes.
Lung metastases are nodules of variable size, but generally greater than one centimeter, multiple and tend to cavitate less than the primary▁neoplasms (less than 4%), and generally appear on irregular lung bases and subpleural lesions.
And as for a possible etiology of lumbar pain in our patient: primary tumors that most frequently metastasize to bone are breast, prostate, lung, thyroid, kidney, and colon.
Myeloma and lymphoma.
Myeloma is the most common primary bone tumor.
It usually presents with well-defined lytic lesions rather than scleroderma, respecting the presence of abnormalities, the diagnosis is reached by proteinogram and bone marrow aspirate.
Pulmonary involvement is rare.
Vertebral infections, persistent infections due to C. pneumoniae, persistent infections due to generalized allergy to loxoplasma, parvovirus B19, Mycoplasma and hepatitis B were the most common.
Degenerative dyscopathy.
Discrete protrusions located centrally in the L2-L3 and L4-L5 disc interspaces were observed, with no repercussion on the tecal sac or nerve roots.
In order to rule out other causes of low back pain, a thoracic and abdominal-pelvis computerized tomography (CT) with intravenous contrast was performed, showing partial resolution of parenchymal cystic condensations in bilateral cavities.
A hypodense lesion with peripheral enhancement in the left psoas of about 3 x 1.3 cm suggestive of abscess is also observed.
Several liver lesions of different sizes as catchers with cyst criteria.
No significant lymphadenopathies.
Abdominal CT c/c: a hypodense lesion with peripheral enhancement in the left psoas of about 3 x 1.3 cm suggestive of abscess was observed.
Due to the lack of improvement in low back pain, scintigraphy and SPECT-CT scan of the jaw showed evidence of spondylodylodiscitis L2-L3 and right shoulder arthritis, which subsequently confirmed the diagnosis of L2-L3.
Skeletal GA with Tc99 Diphosphate and Ga67 citrate: suggestive findings of L2-L3 spondylodiscitis and right shoulder arthritis.
During admission, the patient began expectoration and was able to collect sputum samples. Serial smears were negative and cultures were positive for methicillin-susceptible Staphilococcus aureus (MSSA) for each antibiotic treatment 6 hours.
Subsequently, Enterococo faecium resistant was isolated in urine; cloxacillin was removed and vancomycin was started.
Echocardiography was performed without alterations and without evidence of vegetations.
CT-guided vertebral biopsy was also requested for sampling for cultures whose results (bacterial culture, mycobacterial culture and culture) were negative.
Pathological examination of the disk interposed (biopsy-puncture) showed focal fibrocartilaginous tissue and acute nonspecific inflammation and granulation tissue.
Parenteral antibiotic treatment was maintained, with cloxacillin initially and vancomycin later, completing five weeks and later levofloxacin and oral rifampicin for six more weeks, normalizing inflammatory parameters as well as residual abscess level L2- residual lesion.
She was referred to the Traumatology Column Unit for control.
Final diagnosis Necrotizing pneumonia caused by SAMS.
Spondylodiscitis L2-L3.
Abscess of psoas.
Nosocomial urinary tract infection by E. faecium.
