A 66-year-old woman with no other relevant past history of retinal detachment from the right eye underwent bilateral dissection and phakectomy.
The patient presented with an initial clinical picture of dry mouth for 4 days, difficulty swallowing, abdominal discomfort and vomiting.
Two days after dryness and ocular foreign body, assessed by Ophthalmology without finding pathology.
On the day of the consultation, it is associated with difficulty opening the eyes, blurred vision, difficulty with or without weakness of both lower limbs, which is why she consults with her husband.
He paid attention to the clinic that had begun after the ingestion of salad with peppers and asparagus in homemade canned foods.
Another noteworthy fact was that her husband had bilateral ptosis and had started with similar symptoms of dry mouth, difficulty swallowing and abdominal discomfort.
In the physical examination of our patient there was dryness of mucous membranes, vesical globe that needed catheterization and neurologically alteration of right arrymal layer with dysarthric speech and fluent, anisocopeia little pupillary (pable).
At this point, with the clinical history, physical examination and epidemiological history, the first clinical suspicion is botulism.
▁Botulism is a neuroparalytic disease caused by a bacterial neurotoxin secreted by Clostridium b. nervous system which, due to an irreversible blockade of calcium channels of the vegetative synapses of the cholinergic paralysis, gives rise.
One of the ways of acquiring the toxin is through homemade canned canned foods.
Treatment is based on hemodynamic stabilization and trivalent antitoxin equivalent serum A+B+E.
It is a notifiable and urgent disease.
Our patient was admitted to the ICU where he was managed conservatively, after 24 hours of observation, he was transferred to the Internal Medicine ward with good functional recovery, during his admission, and after discharge, he maintained symptomatic hypotension due to self-involvement.
