Personal history Male, 56 years old.
No known drug allergies.
She had no known cardiac history.
Behçet's disease (pulmonary aneurysms in the right lung, surgery in 1995)
Chronic hepatitis B.
Home treatment: ASA 300 mg, peginterferon alfa 2a, entecavir.
The patient presented with generalized asthenia for about 15 days, chest pain related to exertion and chest pain immediately upon stopping.
No orthopnea, no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.
Not pre/syncope.
No fever or dysthermic sensation in the previous days
Physical location BP 123/79 mmHg.
HR 41 bpm.
Ta 35.2°C.
Aware, oriented, collaborator.
Good general condition.
Eupneic to room air.
Head and back: no IVY at 45o.
Cardiac auscultation revealed fixed sounds.
The vesicular eruption was conserved: mucus, with no noises.
Abdomen: blade, depressible, non-painful.
No organ enlargement.
Extremities: no edema.
No data on deep vein thrombosis.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES ECG: high-grade AV block with 2:1 conduction.
QRS 130 ms. QRS axis at -60o.
Bifascicular block (BRDHH + HAI) with ventriculophasic sinus arrhythmia.
Chest X-ray showed no evidence of acute pleuropulmonary disease.
Pérgio de volume pulmonary right and metallic density material in the inferior portion of the ipsilateral hemithorax in relation to surgical history.
Cardioperipheral sinus normal size.
Annular calcifications projected on the cardiac silhouette, already present in a previous study.
Analytical: leukocytes 2.890/uL (N 50.2%, L 34,
Hb 12.9 g/dl.
Platelets 93,000/uL.
INR 1,
TPPA Ratio 1.
Glucose 83 mg/dl.
Urea 65 mg/dl.
Creat 0.74 mg/dl.
No 143.
K 4.5.
Troponin I: < 0.017 ng/dl.
Echocardiogram: left ventricular non-dilated, with preserved ejection fraction.
Aortic valve was trivalvular, with good opening and slight central insufficiency.
Left atrial fibrillation.
Mitral valve with good opening, diastolic mitral regurgitation.
Aortic root not attached.
▁Right ventricular septal defects, good▁contractility of right ventricle.
Mild tricuspid insufficiency.
No pericardial effusion.
Coronary angiography: left coronary trunk without lesions.
Anterior descending: it presents calcified aneurysmal dilatation of the wall proximally with slowing of distal flow.
Circunfleja: it presents a large aneurysmal dilatation at the proximal level, calcified, with partial thrombosis of the light, which conditions slowing of flow at the distal level.
▁Right coronary: no lesions.
Aortography showed no aneurysmal dilatation.
Coronary CT: saccular coronary aneurysms in the circumflex artery (partially thrombosed and with a neck of 3-4 mm) and in the anterior descending artery (not thrombosed and those over a segment of artery dissecting).
EVOLUTION A 56-year-old patient was admitted to the Coronary Unit for a 2:1 AV block with wide QRS and symptoms consistent with recent onset angina.
A coronary angiography was performed, which showed an anterior descending artery with calcified aneurysmal dilatation of the wall at the proximal level with slowing of distal flow, proximal circumflected flow with large-scale, calcified aneurysmal dilatation.
The case is discussed in a medical-surgical session and it was decided to perform a previous coronary surgery definitive implant.
The convenience of temporarily suspending treatment with peginterferon alfa in order to improve leukocyte counts and platelet count as much as possible for the intervention is commented on.
In this regard, it is evaluated by Hepatology and they recommend suspending the peginterferon in the face of surgery and resuming it as soon as possible after the intervention.
On October 21, 2016, an EPS was performed and the patient suffered an infracian AV block. Subsequently, a definitive bi-layer catheter was implanted without complications.
Postimplantation controls show adequate device functioning.
If the patient is stable cardiovascular and asymptomatic, with no data on HF, hospital discharge is authorized for the next week for cardiac surgery.
On November 4, 2016, coronary artery bypass grafting with double mammary artery "Y" under CPB was scheduled.
Left mammary artery bypass was performed to anterior descending and right mammary artery to marginal obtuse.
The aneurysm was ligated distally and proximally in the anterior descending artery.
Intervention without complications.
Post-operative recovery was uneventful.
DIAGNOSIS Behçet's disease.
Atrioventricular block 2:1 infra-aortic balloon.
▁Definitive bilayer implantation.
Ischemic heart disease due to coronary aneurysms
Coronary revascularization with double mammary artery to anterior descending and to marginal obtuse.
Anterior descending aneurysm clip.
