Female patient, 9 years old, 11 months old, third of 4 brothers, born at term, with a birth weight of 3,800 g, without perinatal pathology and with a morbid growth and development within normal limits, without consultation.
She consulted for a one-year history of progressive difficulty swallowing (logical dysphagia), which progressively limited her feeding with an objective weight loss of more than 10%.
It does not often present vomiting, pain or changes in intestinal transit; it has not presented systemic symptoms such as fever or general▁malaise.
The clinical picture raises suspicion of esophageal achalasia.
A study with radiographs of pink esophagus showing dilation of the distal two thirds of the esophagus with retention of the contrast medium and formation of an acute liquid-liquid level of the distal esophagus is indicated.
There is marked delay in esophageal emptying with placement of contrast medium into the stomach after 4 minutes of observation.
Esophageal motility is decreased, without evident peristaltic waves.
There was barium retention in the distal esophagus.
No other distal anatomical alterations or spontaneous gastroesophageal reflux episodes were identified during the study.
The test is compatible with achalasia.
For this reason, he was referred to pediatric surgery to complete the study and treatment.
Esophageal-masto-masto-esophageal stricture radiography in a pediatric patient with anteroposterior dysphagia Imaging taken at the beginning of the study, with distal dilation of the esophagus and retention of the contrast medium with formation of a level.
Acute reduction of the distal caliber with morphology in "bird peak" is observed.
After 2 minutes of study, no passage of contrast medium into the stomach was observed.
After 4 minutes, a tapered appearance of the gastric chamber was observed.
It is evaluated by the pediatric surgery team, who start studying for eventual surgical resolution.
Chagas serology was performed, which is negative and a general laboratory study to evaluate the nutritional impact of the present condition, presenting a plasma albumin value of 4.5 gr/dl and plasma electrolytes within range was decided to perform a laparoscopic surgery.
