An 88-year-old woman with a history of allergy to penicillins, hypertension, dyslipidemia and ischemic heart disease who came to the emergency department due to deterioration of general status and voiding syndrome. The patient was admitted with acute laboratory tests showing significant elevation of urinary tract reagents.
Despite antibiotic therapy, the patient persisted with poor general condition, fever and significant abdominal pain.
Other possible causes of infection were raised, either by resistant microorganisms or other origins of the same.
On auscultation, the patient had a systolic murmur not previously described and reported growth microbiology in hemocultives (3/3) of anaerobic gram-negative bacilli.
For this reason an abdominal CT is requested that rule out urgent intraabdominal pathology and antibiotic therapy with metronidazole is initiated, with good subsequent evolution.
suspected infective endocarditis (IE), despite the rare occurrence of these by anaerobic bacteria, transthoracic echocardiogram is performed, which shows probable mitral stenosis confirmed in transesophageal (20x7mm).
Finally, the microorganism is identified as metronidazole sensitive bacilli.
According to the new European guidelines, active search for embolic phenomena is recommended in patients with possible native valve disease, performing a PET-CT that identified pathological uptake of the mitral valve compatible with stenosis.
The patient, a few days after the performance of PET-CT and 25 days after admission, has chest pain with typical characteristics along with ST segment elevation in the lower face, so a coronary angiogram was performed with a good coronary angiogram.
A few hours later, a transesophageal echocardiogram was performed, which showed the absence of mitral stenosis.
Both the previous PET-CT and the absence of post-coronary artery stenosis render the diagnosis of coronary syndrome probable in coronary artery disease phenomenon, according to the latest series described in literature (B.
