This is a 28-year-old male, habitual cannabis consumer, with history of bicuspid aortic valve with follow-up by cardiology for 7 years due to moderate aortic insufficiency with mild functional class deterioration, pending valve replacement.
The patient came to the emergency room of our center due to progressive dyspnea of ten days of evolution, until making minimal efforts.
She also suffered from severe abdominal pain in the left hypochondrium and ipsilateral iliac fossa.
The patient also had dysthermic sensation on the last day, with tiritone, without fever.
He had not used drugs parenterally, and had not had any procedures of any kind.
In the emergency room, the patient presented regular general condition, with systolic tension of 90 mmHg and frequency of 125 bpm, with temperature of 38.3oC.
Upon auscultation, a protodiastolic murmur of high frequency and decretory intensity in aortic focus, and biphasic crackles stood out.
The abdomen was painful and deep palpation predominantly in the left hemiabdomen.
The electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia with no other abnormalities.
Chest X-ray showed diffuse increase in bronchovascular network.
Laboratory tests showed elevated CRP and leukocytosis with neutrophilia.
Two sets of hemocultives were extracted and empirical antibiotic therapy with ampicillin, ceftriaxone and daptomycin was initiated.
Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) showed bicuspid aortic valve with image compatible with vegetation of endocarditis in lateral border of posterior commissure.
There is also an I.V.
moderate to severe aortic regurgitation.
Pain with conventional analgesia.
Fever and acetaminophen, and antibiotic therapy were prescribed.
Abdominal CT showed multiple splenic infarcts and one in the left renal pole.
Hemocultives are informed at 24 hours as colonized microorganisms, being sensitive to all antibiotics tested except vancomycin.
Aortic valve replacement was performed 5 days after arrival at the emergency department. A bicuspid aortic valve was found with placement of a prosthetic valve without complications on the ventricular side of both leaflets, biological prosthetic valves being implanted.
On the ward, in the directed anamnesis, the patient recognized daily intake of probiotic dairy products.
Finally, after six weeks of ampicillin antibiotic therapy, the first 5 days associated with gentamicin, the patient was discharged with NYHA functional class I.
