Seek medical advice.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Anaamnesis: a 38-year-old female patient, who the previous day suffers a second-time episode of anxiety at work (first episode and long term),
You suffer syncope after an anxiety crisis, attending a private hospital where you were given diazepam and discharged home, recommending to take an appointment with a psychiatrist.
Two weeks ago he began to feel bad at work with great sleep and tiredness.
A Redbull was bought, which took 2-3 previous coffees, and began to feel worse.
He had cloudy eyes, tachycardia,▁malaise, and started hyperventilating.
They took her for 30 minutes and then took her home.
Angry disorder is diagnosed and temporary disability is initiated.
Treatment was prescribed with lorazepam 1 mg on demand and it was cited in 1 week for the first psychological interview in a health center.
Follow-up: In 1st psychotherapy, the patient comments on the problems in her relationship with her partner and her parents.
She says that there are many discussions together.
The father drinks alcohol more than logical.
It bothers you to drink extra and have responsibilities (such as picking up children).
In her marital life she believes she carries all the weight of the activities and that her husband sees it normal for the woman to do most of the household things: pick up the children, lift them, arrange a backpack, bring them together.
She currently has doubts about her partner relationship.
In addition, problems with your older child, who is seeing a psychologist after receiving a▁guardian at school who says it is very timid, very introverted, is sad
He or she has sometimes been angry, saying things like "I should not have been born", "I am foolish," and he gives himself heads.
Family and community approach The patient is married and has two male children.
It is a nuclear family.
The patient lives at home with her husband and children.
She has a stable job and an apparently good social network.
Clinical judgement (problem finding, differential diagnosis) Depressive syndrome (major depressive episode).
Anxiety disorder
Plan of action and evolution Adjuvant to anxiolytic treatment: Sertraline 50mg/day.
You are recommended help activities (such as writing your thoughts and feelings in a booklet).
Re-cited to continue with their psychological interviews.
Ev: in second psychotherapy, fatigue and fatigue persist; however, there is an improvement with▁crying and family issues (feeling conversation with them).
He still doesn't like to leave home, even though he's dating to pick up his kids and visit his parents.
She wrote a little in her booklet.
She's been with a friend this day.
With some people, if it seemed to him to see, with another, he does not want or cross.
He's quitting smoking.
The patient easily sees the▁crying and difficulty reading her notes from the book.
Sertraline dose was increased to 100 mg/day.
In 3 psychotherapy, she tells us she attended MUTUA a few days ago.
They mentioned that the medication takes a long time to work.
Love more active.
He would like to leave home more.
Manifest improvement in her family relationship
He's still writing in his booklet.
Continue without smoking.
She meets often with several good friends who give her emotional support.
You are advised to continue your medicine.
In 4 psychotherapy, she refers nightmares for the first 2 weeks (notting it in her booklet).
She mentions that she is less active, with little more sleep and tiredness.
You are very afraid that you will come back with another crisis when you return to work.
A change in medication was made to Venlatine 75 mg/12h.
In 5 psychotherapy, she is discharged from her temporary incapacity to return to work.
Love significant improvement.
Do your reflections.
Take your medication.
It's much more active, some day than another a little tired.
He is▁watching TV series, reading about mindfullness, listening to podcasts and attending the gym.
You have not needed rescue anxiolytics.
He's been smoking for 6 weeks.
TA: 130/85 mmHg.
It is recommended to continue with the medication and some books and films for mood improvement.
In 6 psychotherapy she refers to being very well.
Proud not to smoke anymore.
There are always problems at home, such as confrontations with the husband or that the father changes in character when he drinks, but takes it better, and writes it in his book.
She's reading a book (novel) that your sister recommended, she loves.
TA: 117/74 mmHg.
Continue your medication.
In 7th talk therapy she's really fine.
She had an emotional management problem at work, but she could solve it.
We are grateful for the positive progress that has been made to date and says "without your help, doctors, I wouldn't have achieved it".
If a complete response is obtained, treatment should continue for at least another 6 months at the same dose as the cure is obtained to prevent relapse.
