A 39-year-old man presented to the emergency department with a 12-hour history of weakness in the left lower limb (LLL) without other added symptoms.
The patient had a history of smoking and cocaine consumption, with no other relevant pathology.
On arrival, TA 120/70 mmHg HR: 94 bpm Ta: 36.5oC.
A neurological examination was performed, conscious and oriented.
Anisocoria, larger right pupil, only reactive to light, left pupil with preserved photomotor reflex, maintains accommodation reflex, compatible with Argyll Robertson pupils.
In addition, motor deficit in IIM with distal predominance (3/5) with hypoesthesia and left extensor CPR.
A normal examination was performed, except for a possible diagnosis of gingival mucosa without skin lesions.
▁Complementary tests were performed with ECG, chest X-ray and basic analytical without findings of interest, except urine that confirmed the positivity for cocaine.
A simple skull CT scan showed an image compatible with right▁cavernous-lenticular infarction acute-early subacute.
A study of stroke in a young patient was completed at the Neurology Unit. Positive ELISA for HIV and W Blot, normal ac.treponema and positive serology for Autoimmunity were observed, with RPR positive at 1/64.
In cerebral and supra-aortic trunk angioCT, multiple patchy infarcts suggestive of vasculitic process and stenosis 30-45% of the left internal carotid artery are reported.
Acquired these findings, isolation from internal medicine and complete study that shows HIV PCR: 116805 copies/ml, subtype B without primary resistance and total CD4 227 (12%), CD8 1535.
Given the context of the patient, a lumbar puncture was performed and a positive VDRL was obtained in CSF (Negative to Ag.Cryptococcus, Borrelia burgdorferi, mycobacteria).
Biochemistry: ADA 8, Leucocytes 48 cel, L. mononuclear 98%) being this diagnosis of neurosyphilis so treatment with Penicillin G 4 mil IU/4 hours iv is initiated for 14 days
The patient presented progressive improvement with partial recovery of mobility of the lower limbs with daily rehabilitation.
On the 10th day of admission, she began treatment with VFT/CTF/Elvitegravirfil/copist stage evascular infection with good initial tolerance, so on the 25th day of admission she was diagnosed with HIV mening.
