We report the case of a 69-year-old woman, without known medications, for basic activities of daily living, with a history of hypertension, asthma, L5-S1 altered glycemia, bilateral fasting allergy, and a history of hypertension.
On October 6, 2015 she underwent a surgical procedure to implant a total knee prosthesis, with good evolution in the immediate postoperative period, without local or distant infectious complications.
After discharge, the patient achieved complete functional recovery, walking without help and without referring pain in that joint.
On November 12, 2015 she suddenly presented with inflammatory pain, synovial effusion and almost total functional impotence of this joint, associated in the following hours with fever syndrome with chills and tiritone.
For this reason, the patient came to the emergency department with clear signs of arthritis in the right knee, without complaints of fistulas or fistulas in relation to the surgical wound and with the rest of the anodyne physical examination.
Urgent blood tests revealed normocytic anemia, mild leukocytosis and elevated C-reactive protein (348 mg/L) without other relevant findings.
Synovial fluid extracted by arthrocentesis was cloudy, with undetectable glucose, 33,600 leukocytes (95% PMN 5% MN) and proteins 5.32 g/dL.
Cultures of blood and synovial fluid were requested, with Streptococcus sensitive to penicillin isolation.
Plain radiography showed no implant mobilization or periprosthetic fracture.
A transthoracic echocardiogram ruled out endocarditis.
With the diagnosis of presumptive infection of total knee prosthesis, on November 13, surgical debridement was performed. An abundant intraoperative purulent▁exudate was observed, as well as vancomycin loosening ratio of the tibial component.
The four samples of periprocedural tissue were positive every six weeks for the same germ, so after completing a 72 hours period of empirical antibiotic treatment, amoxicillin was dismissed for the remaining two weeks and intravenous ceftriaxone was discontinued (2g).
After completing this treatment correctly and verifying the normalization of acute phase reactants, the second surgical procedure was performed with reimplantation of secondary arthroplasty on February 25th.
The surgical wound bed was described as apparently fix and the four samples for culture obtained before reimplantation were negative.
The postoperative course was complicated due to the change in medial implant of the surgical wound that gave rise to a new infection over the implant. This time, due to Staphylococcus 2016, poliethylene was removed again after cure with cloxameacil.
The patient completed antibiotic treatment with intravenous daptomycin (10 mg/kg/24h) and oral rifampicin 600 mg every 24h for two weeks, then switching to linezolid 600 mg every 12h.
After the established treatment was correctly complied with and the patient received daily cures by specialized nursing, the evolution of the wound was not satisfactory, persisting with a gradual and exudative dressing until the material was exposed as prosecutive.
That is why in the 8th week of treatment (17 May 2016) the teams of Plastic Surgery and Traumatology, perform a joint anti-infective intervention in which a new debridement of the graft with an extra-intermediate mesh graft of the thigh tendon graft is performed.
Epidermol was isolated in the seven intraoperative samples as well as in the polyethylene sonication and resistant to cloxacillin, levofloxacin line,micXid, rifampicin TMP, with phenotype distinct from the former.
Differential diagnosis In the evaluation of all patients affected by acute joint inflammation on a recently implanted prosthesis, we must consider as possible diagnoses, aseptic loosening of the prosthesis, prosthetic fracture or dislocation.
Other processes to consider, although less prevalent during the first month after the intervention, would be microcrystalline arthritis, systemic diseases, complicated Baker's cyst or periarticular processes (tendinitis, bursitis).
After hospitalization, it was decided to perform antibiotic treatment directed with dalbavancin intravenous at a dose of 1000mg per week, associating oral route with 100mg every 12 hours for 8 weeks.
He has followed monthly consultation reviews.
Nine months after the end of treatment, the graft is stuck and healthy. There are no stable zones of radiological mobilization, fistula or flexure around the surgical wound, 90 is normal.
The patient reported being free of pain and walking unaided.
Final diagnosis Acute infectious disease of right TKA due to S.pyogenes.
Early prosthetic infection on secondary arthroplasty due to multiresistant S.epidermis.
