Consultation report An 11-year-old boy with self-limiting diarrhea and good general health.
One week later, she presented with a migratory cutaneous petechial rash.
After five days with this exanthema, it is accentuated and begins with catarrhal symptoms and fever peak isolated 38o, so he comes to the emergency service.
Individual approach As personal history to highlight, the patient has atopic dermatitis and ciprés allergy.
He is well vaccinated and has no known drug allergies.
The following family history is noteworthy: Sister with suspected celiac disease and IgA deficiency.
Paternal rage: several relatives with celiac disease.
Maternal breast: aunt with DMI and autoimmune thyroiditis.
In February, the patient was seen in the emergency department due to a migratory petechial exanthema of one week duration.
It begins in the lower limbs and abdomen, and later appears on the back and upper limbs.
On the same day she came to the emergency department with cough, nasal congestion and odynophagia, with an isolated fever peak of 38o.
Two weeks before, she reported self-limiting diarrhea without pathological products.
On physical examination, a generalized micropetequial exanthema that does not disappear under pressure is seen, more important in the lumbar region, abdomen and shoulders.
Several elbow hematomas without recurrence of associated trauma.
No active mucosal bleeding, although frequent epistaxis was observed without presenting episodes in the last week.
The patient presented normal respiratory auscultation and hyperemic oropharynx without▁exudates, soft palate petechiae.
Due to this clinical suspicion, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is suspected, and an analytical test is performed, highlighting a platelet count of 7,000/μL.
No changes in other series or coagulation disorders.
The decision was made to admit the patient to the oncology department and peripheral blood was drawn for the study of ITP prior to treatment.
Treatment was initiated with intravenous nonspecific human immunoglobulin 800mg/kg, with excellent clinical response and platelet count >100,000 in 48 hours.
The only side effects are fever of 37.4° and headache (VAS 5), which improves with usual analgesics.
The patient was discharged after favorable evolution.
One week later, the patient came to the clinic to receive analytical study results, aimed at ruling out active infections (HIV, CMV, EBV, CHS, HAV, HBV, HCV, toxoplasma, varicella-autoimmune virus).
Family and community approach We discuss the case of a nuclear family patient, with good family support and good cultural level, so an appropriate education is conducted aimed at identifying signs indicating severe active bleeding.
Clinical judgement Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura is a condition of autoimmune origin caused by the appearance of antiplatelet antibodies that induce platelet destruction at a peripheral level.
Our patient has a recent diagnosis of ITP (three months ago) and should be followed-up because it is a disease that can be persistent and even chronic.
Plan of action The aim of treatment is to prevent bleeding rather than correct platelet count.
Treatment is initiated immediately in cases of active mucosal bleeding.
Our patient had only cutaneous bleeding, so ITP study was extracted before starting treatment.
The drugs used as first line are prednisone/methylprednisolone IV in 3 doses or nonspecific human immunoglobulin IV one dose, without consensus or evidence of the advantage of one option over another.
At discharge, patients and relatives should monitor signs of mucosal bleeding, urine color, and hematomas or petechiae.
It should avoid traumatic risk activities and sports activity at first, changing this pattern subsequently according to evolution.
The etiology of this entity is unknown, although it has a favorable evolution, with a rapid response to immunoglobulin therapy.
This patient should be monitored continuously, controlling platelet counts, since the disease may be persistent or chronic.
