A 32-year-old patient with unknown allergies or toxic habits underwent medicamento-PES.
Psychologist of profession.
No relevant child history.
The patient had a history of gynecologic or previous abortions for 2 weeks.
Holocraneal headaches usually have a blood pressure profile, although they have preceded an episode of migraine without aura that was studied in a neurology service.
Acrocia after exposure to cold temperatures for years
No raynaud.
He has not traveled outside Spain.
He had been on hormone treatment (vaginal ring) for approximately 3 months.
He underwent usual treatment with laxatives with ovate plantago.
BACKGROUND: The patient comes to the emergency department with sudden upper limb paresthesias of three days duration associated with edema of the same limb in the last 48 hours.
He denied vision loss and eye pain with extreme movements.
She denied similar previous episodes of loss of sensation in other limbs.
The patient denied having caught weight or repeated movements with the affected limb.
No autoimmune or systemic symptoms were reported.
No febrile syndrome or loss of consciousness.
No history of VTE.
PHYSICAL EXPLORATION: FEG, well hydrated and infused.
Do not jugular engorgement.
Read decubitus and conversation.
MMSS: mild edema in the left upper limb with fovea +/++++ distal predominance, slight increase in diameter compared to the contralateral limb, well perfused limb with radial pulse present.
The proximal superficial venous network of the left limb was visible and asymmetrical with respect to the contralateral limb.
Livedo reticularis in both upper limbs.
ACR: Rhythmic tones, with no red or extractive murmurs.
MVC was preserved without pathological noises.
Abdomen, anodinous.
LL: no edema or signs of DVT.
Neurological examination revealed hypoesthesia in the hand and predominance of left middle third with normal rest.
Adson maneuver and Wright negative.
No sign of Hoffmann.
Negative sphermitt.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES: Normal hematimetry, normal general biochemistry including ferritin and CRP.
Vitamin B12 and normal folic acid.
Hemostasis was normal except for DD 5500.
Normal RR, GI and complement levels.
LUES, HIV, HBV and HCV negative.
ANA, ANCA, ACA and AL were negative.
Chest X-ray showed no abnormalities.
Echo-Doppler of ISM: normal.
Axillary CT angiography showed no obstructive findings at the arteriovenous level.
Cranial and cervical MRI with and without normal contrast.
EVOLUTION: During admission, the patient remained asymptomatic, with periods of paresthesia and minimal self-limiting edema of the lower limbs, mainly associated with movements.
A complementary diagnosis was made based on the diagnosis made.
