A 60-year-old male presented with severe pain, decreased visual acuity and redness in the left eye of one week of evolution.
His family doctor prescribed topical anti-catheterization treatment and requested an assessment by ophthalmology, with a diagnosis of acute left unilateral panuveitis, indicating treatment with prednisone 60 mg/day.
Due to the absence of clinical improvement, internal medicine assessment was requested for diagnostic study.
The patient had a history of facial herpes zoster 15 days prior to the current episode, who was treated with Famivir, with adequate resolution.
The patient was a smoker, single, with occasional risky sexual relations, and lived in a rural environment. In the guided anamnesis highlighted dry cough of several months of evolution, together with relevant mechanical low back pain for two years of evolution,
In the intense examination, there was a phenomenon called «contrast-enhancement», discrete conjunctival hyperemia and iris rubeosis, IOP 18 mmHg.
In the general physical examination: Hemodynamic stability, afferent.
Absence of pathological signs in the neck, normal temporal arteries.
Roncus fixed in both hemithorax, rest of normal CRF.
Pain on palpation of the right hypochondrium without hepatomegaly or other significant findings.
Rest of normal physical examination.
The etiological study of a unilateral uveitis in this patient requires the screening of local or systemic infectious diseases and inflammatory diseases.
Less probable are the pathologies for uveitis and it cannot be forgotten that up to 30% of uveitis (according to published series) are idiopathic.
The evolution was torpid, progressive erythema and left▁orbital swelling, and increased left IOP.
Likewise, the patient presented respiratory worsening, with persistent dry cough and dyspnea on minimal exertion, so parenteral antibiotic (ceftriaxone) and ocular antihypertensive treatment were instituted and the patient was admitted to hospital.
Primary pulmonary infections (including herpes, HIV, CMV) and systemic infections (TB, lues and others), inflammatory diseases (sneoplasmic vasculitis) were considered differential diagnosis.
▁Complementary tests: Blood count was normal.
Biochemistry showed PCR 11 mg/dL, the rest of the parameters being normal.
HBV serology, booster B51 positive HCV.
An abdominal ultrasound was performed, which revealed multiple small abdominal hypodense lesions consistent with cysts.
A CT scan of the chest and abdomen showed irregular pseudo-non-duplicated foci of alveolar appearance of 20x17 mm and 10x19 mm in the lower lobe of the left lung and confirmed the findings and signs in the liver.
The findings were fixed and studied to rule out pulmonary TB and vasculitis.
Interferon gamma (Igra) analysis was performed, which was negative, as well as▁bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage whose microbiological study showed no microorganisms (including mycobacteria).
▁Cytological study was also performed, which was negative for malignant cells.
ANCAs were negative.
Ev: despite antibiotic therapy and IOP control, the patient worsened clinically, highlighting severe retroocular pain.
An orthobital TAC showed thickening of the sclera IO, hyperdense images of the posterior pole, inside the optic vitreous humor, increased retro-orbital fat and punctual nerve insertion hemorrhage in the lower limb.
Performing palliative surgery was indicated to continue the diagnostic study.
Location failure is a non-surgical complication of a phasic approach, indicated for definitive diagnosis in patients with posterior manifestations a, empirical therapies or when there is suspicion of a specific neoplasic process.
Samples were sent for anatomopathological study, in which there were no significant findings, and microbiological study.
After several days, the patient informed us of the growth of No.
in vitreous humor resistant to Imipenem, Tetrates, Clarified, Amoxicillin, Cefotaxima and sensitive to TMP-SMX.
The patient started treatment with TMP-SMX, with progressive respiratory improvement.
After 2 months, the disappearance of ocular inflammation and of hepatic and pulmonary lesions was verified in control imaging tests.
