We report the case of a 51-year-old woman with documented allergy to pyrazolones and codeine.
His personal history included active smoking for up to three months, recurrent bronchitis and vulvovaginal stimulant infections, high blood pressure and low-grade follicular lymphoma for which he had received a first-line treatment for granulocytic neutropenia in 2015 RCHOCS scheme.
She was treated at home with enalapril 20 mg in mental state.
A recent admission due to febrile neutropenia and acute bronchitis with Haemophilus influenzae isolation in sputum culture was received treatment with imipenem and fluconazole associated with G-CSF monitoring and recovery of medication.
Bone marrow biopsy described the existence of a hypocellular marrow and mature pseudo-stop in the granulocytic series.
One month after hospital discharge, the patient complained of a 1-centimeter gall bladder on the inner side of the right upper limb with local redness and heat and▁incipient ulceration, all of which accompanied by a low-grade fever.
Samples were taken for culture and empirical antibiotic therapy with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid was initiated.
After several days of treatment, due to the torpid evolution of the lesion and the elevation of acute phase reactants in the analyses, it was decided to admit the patient to hospital for intravenous antibiotic therapy.
Differential diagnosis First, every skin and soft tissue infection may present as lithiasis, abscess or both.
Erythema, edema and heat appear in any of these forms, with accumulation of pus within the dermis or subcutaneous space in the case of abscess.
Sometimes petechiae may appear in general manifestations of cutaneous manifestations, blisters, fever or other systemic manifestations, all of which are characteristics independent of the germ that causes such infection.
Among the most common germs are those of the skin, such as staphylococcal species, especially S. aureus. Since this is a neutropenic patient, the latter is a viral Streptococcus aeruginosa-associated bacterial pneumonia group, we must also think about
Due to the recent history of previous hospitalization, nosocomial pathogens such as Stenotrophosis maltophilia and Aeros hydrophila should be considered.
Nocardiosis and mycosis involvement would be less frequent etiologies in this context because the immunosuppression presented was severe and due to the rapid evolution of the lesion, mycobacterial infection was not frequent.
The involvement by Candida spp.
and Aspergillus spp.
would be very unlikely options and are usually associated with invasive fungal infections.
Mucor spp.
It also appears as skin infection in immunosuppressed patients, but as an indurated▁papule with secondary necrosis, not corresponding to the characteristics of the lesion in our patient.
Furthermore, superficial infections by Fusarium spp.
occur in 70% of invasive forms, and a priori, our patient did not have a systemic involvement.
In this case, sampling and culture of the same will be the test that determines the diagnosis.
Enzyme, culture samples were isolated from Pseudomonas aeruginosa (susceptible to ceftazidime, cefepime, imipenem, piperacillin/bramycin, tomicine).
Initially, she was treated with dual therapy (piperacillin/ta maxima contraceptive extension 35 quinolones) due to the significant involvement of the skin and soft parts that she presented, describing an 11 mm CT scan as a right arm deep lesion.
After two weeks of intravenous antibiotic therapy, sequential therapy with oral ciprofloxacin 500 mg every 12 hours was performed, allowing outpatient management.
During follow-up visits, the patient showed progressive improvement of the lesion until resolution, requiring daily cures in her health center.
In view of the recurrent infections, a bone marrow study was performed that was compatible with agranulocytosis and plasma immunoglobulins were requested, presenting IgG levels in low limits, so it was decided to start treatment with immunoglobulins monthly.
Final diagnosis Infection of soft parts (E. aeruginosa) by Pseudomonas aeruginosa
