We present a case of mucosal injury in a 48-year-old male patient, married, forestry engineered profession, Venezuelan, living in the city of Mérida to the West of Venezuela.
Due to his occupation he referred frequent visits to forests of localities of the Andean foothill of the states of Mérida, Trujillo, Táchira and Barinas, as well as to the southern localities of the state of Venezuela Bolívar and other
The patient claims to have spent long periods in locations where leishmaniasis is considered endemic and manifests recognizing the insects not inherited as transmitters of Leishmania.
He also reported not having presented primary cutaneous lesions attributed to this parasitosis.
The patient's clinical manifestations date back to 1996, manifesting to have suffered discomfort with bleeding from nasal passages and formation of crusts in the nasal septum.
The following year, an otorhinolaryngologist detected a nasal septum injury.
Removal a dermatologist was applied intradermal reaction test (IDR) with application of leishmanin for screening of leishmaniasis, yielding negative results.
A surgical curettage was then applied to remove a crust of the nasal septum, finding a perforation of approximately 1cm.
The analysis of the biopsy taken from the lesion reported necrotic tissue and chronic inflammation.
The culture of the sample showed abundance of Staphylococcus aureus.
During the period 1998–2008, the patient reported having suffered constant relapses of the clinical picture with frequent reactivation of the edges of the perforation, formation of crusts and nasal bleeding.
Necrosis was detected in 2011, and the patient was reoperated to remove the scab, resulting in increased perforation.
The biopsy again indicates chronic inflammation and the culture gives S. aureus.
Screening for tuberculosis and cytomegalovirus indicated by the physician yielded negative results.
Subsequently, a new biopsy is indicated for the screening of leishmaniasis, suggesting nonconfirmative or negative results.
Subsequently, in a hospital environment, the application of leishmanin is indicated, revealing little positive or negative results.
Repeated RDI test results were negative.
In January 2012, the patient arrived at our laboratory due to ear discharges performed at the Department of Otolaryngology of the Hospital Universitario de los Andes after a sample of active lesions in the nasal septum.
The slides containing material from the affected area were fixed by different methodologies.
In addition, a blood sample was taken by peripheral venipuncture to perform PCR assays and serological studies using different methods.
Ethical considerations Prior to sampling, the patient was informed about the whole sample processing, signing the informed consent (ICP) and authorizing its execution.
Parasitological Pathological Signals of Leishmania sp.
they were detected in slides of slides stained with 10% Giemsa in phosphate buffer pH 7.2, containing material taken from the nasal septum injury.
In general, the observed number of▁parasites was low, and up to 2 isolates per microscopic field of 1000X could be detected on occasions.
Observation was performed in positive field Axiiskop-Zs-Gmany coupled to digital camera Noticam 480 in interface with Laptop HP, making the record of each.
The morphology of the lesions detected.
Identification of the Leishmania species by PCR assays in order to identify the species to which the isolates of Leishmania nasal nematodes belong detected in the aforementioned examination, DNA was isolated from the samples.
The sample examined came to the laboratory extended on slides slides.
DNA extraction was performed using the classic▁phenol method: chloroform: isoamyl alcohol (25:24:1).
DNA obtained was synthesized by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays using the multiplex methodology previously developed for species of Leishmania neotropicales.
The multiplex PCR assay yielded positive results to Leishmania braziliensis demonstrated by the amplification of a strong band of 148 bp from the nasal septum injury sample as described above.
Similarly, similar signs, although weaker band was detected in the peripheral blood sample of the patient, confirmed by multiplex PCR assay.
Results of the PCR assay on nasal septum and peripheral blood material of the patient.
Seropositivity: An aliquot of serum samples was taken for conventional serological tests to detect anti-Leishmania antibodies (Ac) using L. braziliensis antigen.
They included a direct agglutination test (DAT) and an indirect immunofluorescence test (IIF) following previously standardized procedures adapted in our laboratory for this purpose.
All tests performed were negative.
Application of alternative diagnostic test to corroborate infection with Leishmania braziliensis To confirm L. braziliensis as the causal agent of the injury of the case recorded, an alternative serological test for defective Glotyl braziliensis membrane was applied as Western Blot antigen.
These proteins have been successfully isolated in our laboratory as biochemical markers to identify and differentiate leishmaniasis caused by L. (V.) braziliensis, following a previously described methodology.
The application of the test revealed a band of approximately 50kDa specific to L. braziliensis, which is not detected in sera of individuals infected with L. (L.) mexicana or L. (L.) revealed identity of amazonensis.
Likewise, this reaction allows us to assert that the lesion presented in the case studied is parasitologically and immunologically active, since in treated or cured cases the reaction is negative.
