Juana is a 48-year-old patient who consults because she has generalized pruritus for a month.
He explained that he had been on vacation in a mountainous area in his homeland, where he began with small, very pruritic lesions in both arms.
Since pruritus was present, the patient was seen and the condition was referred to as mosquito bites.
Treatment with topical corticosteroids was then initiated.
Despite treatment, the patient still has pruritus and more lesions have emerged.
We reinterrupted the patient about his journey and explained that he was an adventure journey, and that many nights he slept in bed-ridden▁refuges he had prepared.
We also asked about the symptoms and told us that▁daytime pruritus can still hold it but at night it cannot stop scratching, a fact that prevents you from resting well.
He has lesions in his arms, buttocks, many with excoriations secondary to scratching, also presents lesions in the hands and arms.
There are no head or neck injuries.
This is typical of scabies in adults, it respects palms, plants and head.
In some patients, very characteristic interdigital lesions can be seen, such as the acarine sulcus.
Cephalea and gall bladders and/or pustules may be affected in children.
The diagnosis is clinical, if we want to do a diagnostic test, the Müller test could be performed, which consists of visualitzation of mites in the characterization of the patient.
We could also help us visualize lesions in delta wings.
Well, at this point, I think we have clear that in this patient we suspect Sarna, both for the history of having slept in a shared shelter, as for the lesions and pruritus of night predominance that it presents.
The treatment of choice is permethrin 5%, an application at present and a second application at 7 days.
Treatment is not recommended in children under two months of age.
Although pairing treating the person affects the case is resolved, that is not the case.
A very important part of the treatment is to remove the dust mite from the clothing, tissues, which have been in contact with the affected person.
For this purpose, wash all of the clothes that can be at 60oC.
If not possible, the recommendation is to place it in dark, well-closed plastic bags and keep it for 1 week, with this system the mite can be killed.
If we still have a sofa, mattress where we cannot use any of the two previous treatments, we can use insecticides (Grade C).
