We report the case of a 79-year-old man without drug allergies.
She suffered from hypertension and dyslipidemia as cardiovascular risk factors, with good home control.
He has left hydronephrosis with reduced renal parenchyma that leads to chronic renal failure with a creatinine clearance of approximately 40 ml/min/1.73m2.
In addition, she has pro-sinusitis symptoms, with suspicion of a testicular tumor under study by Urology and presented massive pulmonary thromboembolism in 2017 with no clear precipitant with normal coagulation study.
Since then, anticoagulants with direct action anticoagulants have been used.
As usual treatment, the patient was taking apixaban, amikacin, tamsulosin and▁steroids.
It has an active baseline life and is independent for basic activities of daily living.
She has no cognitive impairment or sphincter incontinence or gait disorders.
The patient was brought to the emergency room after finding his family on the ground with sphincter incontinence, difficulty in mobilizing and behavior change, with mutism and disorientation.
In the days prior to the episode, the family members reported the presence of nausea continuously, without vomiting, abdominal pain, changes in bowel habits or fever, and gait disturbance with lateralization the day before the fall.
The examination is conscious, although disoriented, collaborates irregularly with slowness to simple orders, without objectifying clear neurological focus.
Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examinations are anodyne.
Blood tests performed in the emergency department showed the presence of 11,700 leukocytes in the blood count with 78% polymorphonuclear leukocytes, normal in red blood cell series and platelets, with normal coagulation.
Biochemistry showed a creatinine level of 1.89 mg/dl (GFR 37 ml/min/1.73m2), sodium 134 mEq/L, potassium 4.8 mEq/L and C-reactive protein (CRP) 10.8 mg/dl.
Thyroid hormones and urine tests were normal.
Chest X-ray showed no pulmonary parenchymal infiltrates or pleural effusion.
The emergency study was completed by performing a non-contrast-enhanced CT of the skull in which a marked dilatation of the ventricular system was not proportional to the clinical context of the right ventricular septal defect, which could correspond to a normotensive hydrocephalia in an emergency department.
In addition, an ectatic and tortuse basilary artery appears.
During the afternoon after admission, the patient begins with greater agitation and nervousness, without collaborating or recognizing his relatives, and progressive decrease in the level of consciousness up to a Glasgow score of 12/15.
Vital signs at this time are as follows: AT 130/100 mmHg, HR 90 bpm, with oxygen supply to 91-92% at 2 bpm through nasal glasses and fever of 38oC.
Blood tests were repeated, similar to the previous one, although CRP levels increased to 44 mg/dl with normal mucosa and gas.
A new CT scan of the skull was also repeated, in which no changes were observed with respect to the previous CT scan, and a lumbar puncture was performed to analyze the CSF.
Differential diagnosis We present a patient with acute confusional state with altered level of consciousness, mild leukocytosis with elevated CRP, fever, partial respiratory failure and dilatation of the ventricular system on CT scan of the head.
Since there are many pathologies that course with decreased level of consciousness, we will make a differential diagnosis including those causes that are accompanied by hydrocephalia in its evolution.
This includes CSF outflow obstruction caused by an anatomic abnormality (e. g., Chiari malformation), a tumour, or an infectious or inflammatory disease (e. g. meningitis)1.
Since no mass or other obstructive lesion was observed in the brain CT of our patient, we could rule out the fact that it was both an anatomical anomaly and a tumor, such as fever or high CRP, which would not be accompanied by the rest of the clinic
Therefore, the entities that could be taken into account in the differential diagnosis would be the following: • Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis: it is a fulminant demyelinating disease that can be related to a history.
It always presents with symptoms of disseminated neurological disease (such as sensory deficit), in addition to other symptoms such as fever, headache, meningism... pleocytosis is common in CSF, usually 200 cells/μl.
MRI can reveal an exotic white matter gadolinium enhancement in the brain and spinal cord.
• Sarcoidosis: neurological involvement occurs in 5% of patients with sarcoidosis and is the first manifestation in approximately half of the cases.
Neurological findings include cranial neuropathies and occasionally pachymeningitis.
However, hydrocephalia would be more unusual.
Aseptic meningitis is usually the only manifestation of neurosarcoidosis.
• Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener's granulomatosis).
Neurological complications of Wegener's granulomatosis occur in 20-50% of cases, although they are not usually the initial signs of the disease.
The mechanisms of nervous system involvement include invasion of contiguous, independent structures, formation of intracranial granulomas and vasculitis.
Despite this, our patient has no other extracranial clinical manifestations that can make us think about this entity such as lesions in the paranasal sinuses or kidneys.
• Bacterial meningoencephalitis: Both bacterial and fungal meningoencephalitis can cause chronic inflammation and healing of the ventricular lining, leading to the formation of adhesions that can cause obstruction.
The community-acquired bacterium that most frequently causes meningitis in adult patients is Streptococcus pneumoniae; although meningococcal and Lis prescriptions are also common.
In this case, pleocytosis with polymorphonuclear predominance, elevated protein, decreased glucose and Gram positive staining was found in CSF.
Brucella can cause chronic granulomatous meningitis, but is typically associated with fever, constitutional syndrome and exposure to infected animals or tissues2.
Finally, Treponema ataxiadum and Borrelia burgdorferi spirochetes can cause various neurological manifestations in advanced stages, such as meningitis, encephalitis, inflammation of cranial nerves.
• Fungal meningitis.
It can cause meningoencephalitis associated with a mild, resolving or asymptomatic pulmonary infection.
The most common type of fungal meningitis is cryptococcal, although it is rare in immunocompetent patients, as well as Aspergillus spp, Mucor spp and Pseudallescheria boydii.
Coccidioidomycosis and histoplasmosis rarely spread to the central nervous system.
In blastomycosis, in general, the brain and meninges are late in the course of advanced disease.
• Tuberculous meningitis: appears with a chronic and indolent course.
The infection originates from a primary tuberculous lesion or reactivation in relation to aging, immunosuppression or HIV infection.
Characteristic features of active tuberculosis may not accompany meningitis; chest X-rays are normal in more than half of the affected adults.
The typical pattern of CSF is mononuclear pleocytosis with elevated proteins and reduced glucose levels.
The average duration of symptoms is between two and four weeks.
The presence of fever is typical, occurring during the course of the disease in more than 80% of patients.
Hydrocephalia is the most common neurological disorder.
In our patient we should consider this entity, given the clinical presentation and the presence of hydrocephalia, although a priori we would find ourselves in an immunocompetent patient, so it would be less likely.
It could also be caused by M. avium, although in these cases they usually have abnormal chest X-ray and cough symptoms.
e Respiratory failure requiring lumbar puncture begins empirically treatment with ceftriaxone, vancomycin, ampicillin ICU, intubation and dexamethasone and, given the clinical situation of severity of the patient, marked decrease in respiratory failure
Cerebrospinal fluid biochemistry showed a clear liquid, with 21 leukocytes (89% mononuclear), glucose consumption (20 mg/dl) and proteinorrhachia (169 mg/dl).
No microorganisms were observed in Gram stain.
Since the patient did not show clear improvement with antibiotic treatment, it was decided to perform a new lumbar puncture, detecting a positive PCR for tuberculosis, confirming its growth in the subsequent culture.
Treatment was initiated with rifampicin/metforminamide/ isoniazid (Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection was sensitive to all first-line tuberculous infections).
Sputum smear microscopy in respiratory samples was also positive, requiring respiratory isolation.
Seventeen new imaging tests, both with CT and MRI, continue to detect hydrocephalia one week later from the start of anti-tuberculosis treatment, removing a ventricular drain for three days, with no clear clinical improvement.
A CT scan of the chest is also performed, showing multiple small nodules in the lower and upper right lobe that do not appear to be related to tuberculosis.
The HIV serology performed was negative.
As complications in the ICU, one patient developed Klebsiella pneumoniae as well as two episodes of bacteremia secondary to central venous catheter infection, one of them due to Staphylococcus epidermis and another due to Klebsiella pneumoniae, treated with linezolid and ciprofloxacin, respectively.
The patient was admitted to the hospital with hemodynamic and respiratory stability and some improvement in consciousness, although fluctuating during the following days.
A ventriculotomy was performed due to the persistence of hydrocephalia with significant▁exudate and control skull CT performed one month later.
Finally, despite the measures taken, the patient continues to present progressive neurological deterioration and died almost two months after initiating anti-tuberty treatment.
Final diagnosis Acute confusional state with decreased level of consciousness secondary to tuberculous meningitis in immunocompetent patient.
