Anamnesis A 45-year-old Caucasian woman with severe rheumatoid arthritis, chronic micro-organism fibrosis, caused by pulmonary erosive and limiting disease, treated with abatacept,▁cyclosporine and methylprednisolone.
Empirical antibiotic treatment with meropenem and triprime/metaloxazole followed a torpid evolution.
erythematous, elastic and slightly painful nodules, appeared 2 months ago and were distributed in the epigastric pattern.
The affected area had been manipulated by repeated venipunctures for drug infusion in recent months.
These nodules had not changed with antibiotic treatments.
▁Complementary laboratory tests showed normocytic and normochromic chronic anemia of 98 g/L, creatinine of 3.27 mg/dL, with the rest of the ionogram, hepatic and renal biochemistry correct.
A chest X-ray showed an intense deformity of the chest cavity and a parenchyma, which was impossible to assess due to the intense interstitial pneumopathy the patient had already presented and which did not allow changes to be observed in relation to previous examinations.
The anatomopathological study of one of the cutaneous nodules revealed a mixed infiltrate in the entire thickness of the dermis, with the presence of suppurative granulomas that were poorly formed and multiple vacumellae lesions or pseudocysts.
Ziehl-Neelsen stain of biopsy material showed acid-fast resistant bacilli.
Both bacterial cultures and in suitable media for mycobacterial growth were negative.
A PCR, obtained from a part of the skin biopsy of the nodule, was positive for Mycobacterium chela.
Diagnosis A cutaneous infection, locally disseminated, with lymphangitis caused by M. cheek, was diagnosed.
Pulmonary involvement could not be ruled out due to the inability to obtain samples due to the inability to expectorate and the impossibility of obtaining samples by invasive methods, given the severe condition of the patient.
Clarithromycin 500 mg every 12 hours was administered orally to the antibiotic treatment (at that time meropenem, rifabutin and etambucil), which led to a resolution of nodules in only 14 hours.
Nevertheless, the patient died due to worsening of her respiratory condition 23 days after the addition of clarithromycin.
