A 48-year-old woman with a history of hypertension and dyslipidemia treated with ACEI and statins.
Cesarean section in a pregnancy and bilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy.
In 2014, she underwent abdominal surgery due to thrombosis with subtotal resection of the intestine and required placement of a stent located in the left flank.
In this context, it requires a long hospital stay of approximately 4 months, being discharged with central home parenteral nutrition (Hickman-type catheter) for short bowel syndrome while waiting for intestinal transplantation.
During this hospitalization, she presented several episodes of catheter-related bacteremia (CRB) with the only microbiological isolation of Candida glabrata, requiring several changes.
In the current episode, two weeks after discharge from the Surgery Department, the patient returned to the hospital with a high fever of bacteriemic characteristics and no other symptoms to be highlighted by organs and devices.
On examination upon arrival, the patient remained hemodynamically stable, with a peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) in the right antecubital fold with no signs of local infection and a Hickman catheter connected to a nutrition bag.
The oral mucosa showed whitish plaques suggestive of muguet.
There was no neurological focus or signs of meningeal irritation.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed no audible murmurs and vesicular murmur was preserved in all fields.
The abdomen was▁barely depressible, the scar from the midline laparotomy was in good condition, presented with functioning cyst and cystostomy and did not show any peritonism.
Among the complementary tests at admission, there is blood count without leukocytosis, with a slight neutrophilic predominance (neutrophilic), and CRP of 14.84 mg/L.
Renal function, electrolytes and bilirubin did not change, although TPG of 182 U/L and LDH of 363 U/L were observed.
No alterations in basic coagulation.
An abdominal ultrasound was performed, which was annotated.
Initially, blood and urine cultures were extracted, empirical antibiotic therapy was initiated with meropenem 1 gr/8h and linezolid 600 mg/12h, until isolation of Staphylococcus aureus resistant to venom in all PICCs.
Since the catheter was not initially removed and the fever persisted, we decided to remove a PICC catheter, and the combination of catheter tip and HSC catheter was maintained at a dose of 70 mg/24 for previous hospitalizations.
Defervescence was achieved for 4 days with subsequent recurrence of fever.
Differential diagnosis We found a patient with practically total resection of the intestine, with severe disorder of nutrient absorption, so that he needs complete TPN through the central venous route, as well as PICC for the administration of long-term peripheral catheters with complicated repetition.
Given that fever persists, despite treatment directed to the microorganism isolated in different cultures and removal of PICC, we propose the following differential diagnosis as possible causes of fever: 1.
Nosocomial origin: Although the patient did not present voiding symptoms, it was a patient who had a bladder catheter, so we ruled out urinary tract infection with the urine culture that was negative.
There were no respiratory symptoms, but a chest CT was requested, which did not show any infiltrate.
On the other hand, surgical wounds did not show any signs of local infection, although abdominal CT ruled out abscesses or complications.
Finally, in his situation and with the previous history of CRBSI, it seemed likely that we were in the same situation, especially when the same antibiotics had not been changed again, but only started.
2.
Endothelial infections caused by hemophilia: We did not start to know, however, it was important to determine if it was an endocarditis on native valve, in persistent bacteremia, with isolation of coagulase-negative staphylococci (CE).
Transesophageal echocardiography was initially ruled out.
3.
Catheter-related fever: fever without a focus in a chronic patient with endovascular devices (Hickman and PICC) should always be suspected as a venous catheter-related infection.
In addition, our patient had a previous history of CRBSI secondary to Candida glabrata.
4.
Fever associated with autoimmune/systemic diseases.
All the autoimmunity battery was requested for screening for autoimmune/systemic disease (ANA, ENA, APA and ANCA), all of which were negative.
5.
Fever associated with cancer
No data were found in favor of the imaging tests requested, although tumor markers, proteinogram and B2-microglobulin were increased in analytical, all without remarkable alterations.
6.
Drug-related fever
Although unlikely in our case, we should consider this option if all the above were negative.
It remains a relatively common cause of persistent fever without a clear focus.
As the most probable cause of the fever; other causes of fever, with analytical tests and autoimmunity, culture results and imaging tests, despite treatment directed against the isolated microorganism and extended the antibiotic spectrum
In these circumstances, it was decided to remove Hickmn, and in coordination with Interventional Radiology, it was decided to maintain TPN through PICC.
The patient was maintained for 48 hours with antibiotic therapy and without central catheter.
In order to avoid new episodes of CRBSI, and in consultation with the literature, it was decided to seal it with taurolidine, so that the patient's husband was trained for▁sealing.
The patient was finally discharged home with no antibiotic therapy and good tolerance to PNT.
She remains stable, and without any septic problem, during the study of suitability for intestinal transplantation and is waiting for her transfer to Madrid.
Final diagnosis Long-term central venous catheter-related▁bloodstream infection (Hickman type) in a patient with short bowel syndrome is parenteral nutrition.
