A 54-year-old male patient was referred to the Ongoing Outpatient Clinic of the Virgen Macarena Hospital with the main diagnosis of posterior uveitis.
The infectious etiology is ruled out by negative laboratory data and because there are no data suggestive of systemic disease.
A lesion is observed in the posterior pole of the right eye.
The patient was treated with antiangiogenics (anti-VEGF; beneizumab) in four occasions before being referred to our center.
As a family history, she refers to her mother with tongue cancer and her father with stomach cancer and, in terms of personal history, only dyslipidemia.
As complementary tests of interest, we have a complete blood count and normal biochemistry (NL), except for the dyslipemia referred, volume of globular sedimentation 9, serology for the human immunodeficiency virus (-), Bortoux syphilis: can.
Radiography: normal.
Cranial/orbital computerized axial tomography with and without contrast: normal.
Tumor markers (-), antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody, antinuclear antibody, human leukocyte antigen-B/angiotensin converting enzyme: normal or negative.
▁Right ventricular ejection fraction: visual acuity (VA): eye ox (OD): 0.05/left eye: 0.9.
His VA decreased despite having a right eye amblyopia.
• Biomic of anterior pole: anterior pole without pathological signs.
Clear corneal and crystalline lenses (-), intrinsic and normal ocular motility.
• Eye fundus: something raised in the posterior pole of the RE with hemorrhagic and vascular component on its surface.
• Intraocular pressure: 16/16 mmHg.
• Optical coherence tomography (OCT): a dense lesion with no cyst or presence of subretinal fluid compatible with hamartoma.
• Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A): lesion compatible with capillary hemangioma in the arcade, which compromises the posterior pole.
Afferent and efferent vessels are visualized in the superficial layers and show a compatible with artifact in the avascular layers2.
OCT-A was performed using OCT Triton, swept source OCT-A3.
Diagnosis: solitary capillary hemangioma in the lower temporal arch without associated systemic disease.
Treatment: the lesion was treated with photodynamic therapy (PDT) on four occasions plus post-treatment A-VEGF (afl receptor) one week after each session, with two-month intervals between the treatments (May, with recovery).
Its activity decreased and, consequently, exudation.
Vision improves from 0.05 to 0.2, which, given the patient's previous amblyopia, is a significant improvement.
He is currently under observation.
