89 year old male, hypertension.
AF, round atelectasis in the right lower lobe and subpleural micronodules, right hydropneumothorax loculated in follow-up by▁Pneumology.
Left kidney cyst Bosniak II.
Pancreatitis, meningitis.
She was admitted to Internal Medicine due to hepatic abscess in segment 4, on a CT scan for the control of▁Pneumology.
Physical examination was normal except for a known arrhythmia.
Drainage was performed with culture of samples and antibiotic treatment with Amoxicillin-Clavula was established, in the absence of biliary tract dilation and without collostasis. Normal study of dilation and cytology were completed.
A control CT scan was performed, which showed no changes in the hepatic lesion, so a study was extended with MR cholangiography showing distal lithiasis.
Endoscopic ECHO showed choledochal lithiasis with no evidence of dilatation or obstruction of the bile duct and no image compatible with neoplasia.
Alpha fetoprotein negative, cultures with isolation of Clostridiodesveris so that Metronidazole is administered to treatment.
With echographic improvement of the abscess, drainage was removed and the patient was admitted to the Hospitalization Unit at Domicilio to complete antibiotic treatment.
After two weeks of treatment, the patient presented a new clinical worsening with anorexia, deterioration of general status and asthenia, and an echographic reason for readmission.
A new drainage of abscess and biopsy of it was performed given the characteristics of the patient and reviewed in the literature the association described between Clostridiodes Cadaveris and neoplasia.
The result was compatible with liver metastasis of epidermoid carcinoma of unknown primary (although taking into account the lesion and pulmonary effusion presented by the patient, this could be the primary one).
It is discussed with the family and according to it and taking into account the age of the patient and the scarce therapeutic possibilities, it is decided not to subject the patient to further outpatient follow-up studies, which is why palliative care is used.
