We report the case of a 77-year-old man who consulted in the Emergency Department for pain and a massless mass in the left pretibial region of two months of evolution without response to antibiotic treatment.
This is a Spanish-born patient, former smoker and ex-smoker, without toxic consumption, with multiple comorbidities: hypertension, dyslipidemia, insulinized type 2 diabetes mellitus with acceptable metabolic control, chronic ischemic cardiopathy cardiocirculatory.
The patient had not traveled recently, had not been in regular contact with animals.
He had worked as a trucker, retired.
Four months before the current episode, she had been admitted due to an accidental trauma to the left costal region with recurrent hemothorax, with no involvement of the lower limbs.
The initially diffuse pain, located in the anterior aspect of the tibia, had appeared in the last weeks before consultation, where an area of swelling and redness had appeared.
No fever or other symptoms were observed, and the patient reported no previous trauma or bites in the area.
During this period he had undergone several cycles of antibiotic treatment, due to his primary care physician, without improvement.
On examination, the patient was hemodynamically stable and afflicted.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation revealed left basal hypoventilation, with rhythmic cardiac tones and no murmurs.
The abdomen was anodic.
No neurological focality data were found either.
Fluctuating swelling was observed in the middle third of the left tibia, with erythema and increased local temperature.
No skin or joint lesions were observed at other levels.
In the complementary tests, the blood count showed no alterations in any of its series, renal function, and ̄s abnormalities.
C-reactive protein was 19 mg/L.
A simple anteroposterior (AP) and lateral radiograph of the left lower limb was performed, where an osteolytic image of well-defined edges in the tibial diaphysis was observed.
The chest X-ray showed an increase in the cardiac silhouette with clamping of the left costophrenic sinus in relation to residual previous hemothorax, with no other changes.
At this time, the following differential diagnosis was proposed: Differential diagnosis The appearance of inflammatory symptoms, pain and as the first suspect of osteolytic bone infection together with a radiological image, suggests the presence of osteomyelitis, different microorganisms.
However, the differential diagnosis of osteolytic lesions in long bones should include: First, we should rule out tumor pathology1, both primary and metastatic bone.
Osteosarcoma is the most common primary tumor.
This type of lesion is located in long bones, but unlike in our case, radiographically the edges are not well defined and there is accompanying peritic reaction.
The so-called Codman triangle is not present either in cases where peristaltic calcification is usually located within the▁boundary between the tumor and healthy bones, or there are no irregular markings of blade tissues.
These tumors have a bimodal distribution, being more frequent between 15-19 years and in elderly patients.
In elderly patients they are usually secondary to other conditions such as Paget's disease or prior radiotherapy.
Among metastatic tumors, osteolytic metastases of carcinoma▁predominate, which are usually multiple and non-marginal; however, we are faced with a single lesion and there is no clinic suggestive of a primary carcinoma.
It would also have to be considered the differential diagnosis with zygomatic malignancy, solitary osteolytic lesion without clinical, histological or radiological evidence of multiple myeloma, formed by a localized proliferation of plasma cells.
The average age of onset is 55 years and the most frequent location is the axial skeleton, being exceptional the distal affectation, as in the patient presented here.
Secondly, a differential diagnosis should be made with Brodie2 abscess, which is a subacute or chronic form of osteomyelitis, bone marrow involvement, which represents between 2.5% and 42% of primary infections.
Patients are usually younger than 25 years and usually present with joint pain and local swelling.
It is usually caused by a pathogenic origin, but it can also occur withtiguity in the context of trauma or osteosyntesis material.
The focus of infection is an abscess confined inside a sclerotic bone edge.
In general, there are no signs of systemic disease.
A central radiologic feature of a simple radiograph is an intramedullary area with sclerotic margins.
Finally, other less frequent entities with which differential diagnosis should be made are eosinophilic granuloma, sarcoidosis and fibrous histocytoma.
Eosinophilic granuloma is the most common and benign form of Langerhans cell histiocytosis.
It is about the abnormal proliferation of cystoid cells in various tissues, including the skull, jaw, pelvis and spine.
In skeletal malformations, usual metaphyseal or diaphyseal lesions are radiolucent, well defined and frequently delimited by a sclerotic halo.
They are typically central to the medullary canal and peristaltic reaction is not common.
Clinically, it presents with pain and local edema.
Sarcoidosis is a systemic disease characterized by the formation of non-caseating granulomas, which most often affects the lungs and mediastinal lymph nodes, but which can compromise any organ, including bone 3-13%.
The patient did not present suggestive systemic symptoms or compatible chest X-ray abnormalities.
Fibrous sclerosis constitutes approximately 1% of all bone tumors. It is located in the diaphysis and epiphyseal end of long bones, pelvis and ribs.
Although it can occur at any age, it is more common in young adults.
It is usually asymptomatic, unlike the patient we present.
A plain radiograph showed a well-defined sclerotic radiologic lesion, with thickened borders and weakening of the cortical bone.
Since the patient was stable and afflicted, antibiotic treatment was postponed pending drainage and sampling.
The median approach to the lesions was to drain the abscess, with abundant purulent material leaving the opening.
During the procedure, fistulization from the bone was evident.
The tibia anterointerna region of the tibia was dissected and the fistulous tract was excised.
Curettage of the intramedullary abscess was performed, obtaining a large amount of purulent material.
Washing was performed with abundant serum and antiseptic, subsequently filling the bone defect with calcium sulfate pearls absorbable with gentamicin and vancomycin.
Intraoperative microbiological bone samples were taken which were fixed for routine bacterial and mycobacterial culture.
After surgery, empirical antibiotic therapy was started with 2 g cloxacillin every 4 hours and 2 g ceftriaxone every 24 hours.
The patient was admitted favorably and daily local cures were performed without incidents.
Affection continued.
No bacilli were observed in the acid-fast staining of the samples, and the usual bacterial cultures were negative, PCR for Mycobacterium pyrazinamide was positive, withdrawing empirical antibiotic therapy and starting treatment with rifampicin 165 mg/day.
Sputum and urine smears were negative.
Upon discharge, the patient continued with oral treatment during admission, being reviewed for infectious diseases, with good evolution and tolerance to treatment, without change in liver profile.
Final diagnosis: Osteomyelitis of the left tibia caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
