Anamnesis 33-year-old male, born in Colombia, professional commercial pilot with flight routes at the centre and his usual destination.
She had no known drug allergies or vascular risk factors.
She had no medical history of interest or usual treatment and had undergone rhinoplasty for years.
She came to the emergency department with a clinical picture of 4-5 days of insidious onset consisting of dizziness with gyrus of objects that worsened with standing, gait instability, headache, nausea, and vomiting.
bilateral otic taping, more intense in the left ear
She did not report previous fever or symptoms suggestive of▁epileptic seizures.
Arterial hypertension - discharge 127/78 mmHg
Afebril.
Head and neck: no carotid murmurs were auscultated, without lymphadenopathy.
Cardiopulmonary arrest: rhythmic at 75 bpm, preserved vesicular murmur.
Abdomen: blando, depresible, non-painful to palpation without masses or visceromegaly.
Extremities: no edema, peripheral pulses present and symmetrical.
It alerts, conscious and oriented in time, space and person.
Normal language in emission and comprehension, no dysarthria.
Cholesterols, normoreactive.
Confrontation Campimetry showed no alterations.
Horizontal-rotational, inexhaustible noxious, in the left lateral view, with a rapid phase to the left.
Horizontal diplopia, predominantly in the left eye.
Nonparesis.
Normal cranial nerves.
Normal muscle tone, globally preserved strength and sensitivity.
Normal features.
The apex asymmetry was detected in the left toe maneuver and dysdiadochokinesia in the left upper limb.
Truncal ataxia with increased base of support, which worsened with closed eyes, negative Romberg.
Marcha without clear lateralization, difficulty for the elderly.
Do not tremor.
No meningeal signs or neck stiffness
Eye fundus in the Emergency Room: papillae with clear edges, no bleeding or▁exudates.
▁Complementary tests • Analytical: blood count with mild leukocytosis without neutrophilia (10,640 leukocytes/ mm3), coagulation and basic biochemistry without alterations.
Transaminase elevated (glutamate-oxoacetate transaminase 45 IU/l, glutamate-pyruvatetransaminase 124 IU/l, gamma-glutaminase sublysis), with normal hypothyroidism 124 IU/l.
Serologies for human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B and C, syphilis, hydatidosis and toxoplasma negative.
▁Cytomegalovirus IgG positive/IgM negative.
Serology of negative cysticercosis.
C-reactive protein 0.1 mg/dl and erythrocyte sedimentation rate 9 mm/1 hour.
Normal peripheral blood immunophenotype.
Erythropoietin was within the normal range (7.2 mIU/ ml).
• Chest X-ray: no significant findings.
• Urgent brain computed tomography: a well-defined 37 x 44 mm hypodense lesion with vasogenic edema ventricle and a trivenculous mass effect on the IV was identified in the left cerebellar hemisphere (intraaxial).
After contrast administration, a small solid 7 x 6 mm pole was observed, which was very catching.
• Abdominal ultrasound: liver stricture.
Vesicle, portal, biliary tract and spleen were not pathological findings.
Pancreas with fatty replacement
Kidneys in size at the lower limit of normal, with no other changes.
• Brain magnetic resonance imaging: a tumor of approximately 48 x 31 x 50 mm, intraaxial, located in the left cerebellar hemisphere.
Cranial MRI.
Axial cross-section with contrast where cystic lesion and mural solid pole with vasogenic edema and mass effect on the fourth ventricle are observed.
He had a cyst occupying most of the tumor and a small mural solid pole of 7 x 9 mm.
Cystic area showed hyperintense signal characteristics in long RT sequences, hypointense in T1 sequences, without brightness in the diffusion sequence.
After the administration of paramagnetic contrast, only a fine linear enhancement was observed inside, compatible with the existence of a septum.
The solid pole was slightly hypointense in T2-weighted sequences, intermediate signal in T1-weighted sequences, and with intense contrast uptake.
In contact or adjacent to it, some millimetric vascular structure was identified.
• Cerebral arteriography: hypercapsule nodule on the periphery of the left cerebellar hemisphere, with primary contribution from the cerebellar inferior osseous artery.
• Urgent brain computed tomography: increased lesion due to cystic component that continued to collapse of the fourth ventricle.
Hydrocephalia and ascending transtentorial herniation that had progressed significantly with respect to previous studies.
• Pathological anatomy: cerebellar hemangioblastoma.
Diagnosis Cerebellar hemangioblastoma.
Treatment and evolution In the emergency room was assessed by ENT and Neurology, confirming a central vertigo syndrome.
Having established the findings in the emergency computed tomography, considered the image by radiology as the first possibility neurocysticercosis, it was decided to start empirical treatment with albendazole 400 mg/8 h, dexamethasone 4 mg/h and symptomatic treatment.
She was admitted to complete the study.
Initially, the patient remained neurologically stable, referring only to occipital headache and vertigo symptoms.
One week after admission, her level of consciousness deteriorated, headache intensified and vomiting gunshot.
Urgent computed tomography was performed, showing increased lesion and signs of ascending transtentorial herniation.
The patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for monitoring and surveillance, requiring neurosurgical evaluation.
It was decided to urgently intervene, performing a right frontal ventricular drainage to relieve intracranial hypertension and a suboccipital craneotomy, identifying the cyst puncture and nodule resection.
A pathological anatomy specimen was sent, which gave the diagnosis of cerebellar hemangioblastoma.
The patient was discharged home satisfactorily without postsurgical complications, compliant with the outpatient Von Hippel-Lindau screening study.
