Anamnesis A 10-year-old woman, with no personal or family history of interest.
Located seven days ago while bathing in the Mediterranean, he feels the bite of a marine animal on the posterior side of the right linear medicated, presenting immediate pain, itching and erythematous lesions
Topical corticosteroids are prescribed, improving symptoms.
Five days later, the patient developed a skin rash with erythematous-edematous▁papules, slightly pruritic, mainly on the trunk.
Physical examination revealed multiple linear crusted lesions on the posterior aspect of the right side.
The trunk and cheeks showed symmetric lesions, maculae and▁papules, erythematoedematous.
In both glulites the lesions converged, acquiring round plaque morphology, some with the center of paler coloration, giving the appearance of targets in some of them.
There were no mucosal lesions.
No other findings were observed in the physical examination.
Laboratory tests were performed with complete blood count, biochemical profile, acute phase reactants, urine test, chest X-ray, serology for CMV, EBV, HAV, HBV, HCV and parvovirus; all of them presented normal limits
A punch-type skin biopsy of one of the thigh lesions was performed, which showed in the epidermis;▁lymphocytic exocytosis, foci of spongiosis, parakeratosis, presence of scarce basal▁keratinocytes.
In dermis there was a superficial perivascular▁lymphocytic infiltrate with moderate presence of▁eosinophils.
Diagnosis Erythema multiforme secondary to Cnidario's bite.
Topical antibiotic treatment for right infected areas and surveillance.
Erythema multiforme was diagnosed with clinical manifestations and histology.
Since contact with marine animals was the only associated factor, we suggest that erythema multiforme occurred secondary to the bite of this cnidarian.
After treatment with corticosteroids and topical antibiotics in the area of the bite, pain and inflammation improved.
After healing of linear lesions, a slight hyperpigmentation persisted.
Erythema multiforme-like lesions at 7-10 days showed spontaneous clinical regression.
