A two-year-old girl presented to Virgen de la Salud Hospital in Toledo with right upper lobe pneumonia (RLP) with associated pleural effusion for drainage.
The patient was transferred to a non-medicalized ambulance with oxygen in nasal glasses at 3 bpm.
Intravenous antibiotic treatment with ampicillin at 200 mg/kg/day for 48 hours was added cefoxime for the last 24 hours.
The patient's constants are heart rate (HR): 160 bpm, blood pressure (BP): 100/50 mmHg, SatO2 99% with nose clips at 3 bpm, temperature (Ta) of 38.6°C.
Upon arrival, the patient had a regular general condition severe suboptimal skin and mucosa, thermal gradient of 3°C in the knees and elbows, capillary▁refill of 5 s. Moderate intercostal retraction.
Cardiac auscultation revealed normal sounds and pulmonary hypoventilation in the right lung field.
The abdomen is blandom and depressible, hepatomegaly of 2 cm costal margin, conscious and oriented neurological examination, negative meningeal findings.
Initially it expands to 20 ml/kg, improving perfusion and disappearing the thermal gradient but tachycardia persists.
These findings should be suspected: a. Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS).
b. Sepsis.
c. Sepsis grave.
d. Septic shock.
e.▁Pneumonia in isolated LSD.
In our case there are sepsis criteria with two or more organs dysfunction but without meeting criteria for septic shock.
The results of the analytical control arrived: • Blood count: hemoglobin 6.9 g/dl, hematocrit 19.2%, platelets 18,000x106/L, leukocytes 15,500x106/L.
• Biochemistry: glucose 91 mg/dl, urea 105 mg/dl, creatinine (Cr) 1.29 mg/dl, GOT 227 U/L, GPT 55 U/L.
Venous gases: pH 7.31, pCO2 45 mmHg, pO2 134 mmHg, HCO3 – 22.7 mmol/L, base excess -3.3.
Coagulation: T. prothrombin 83%, INR 1.1, T. cefalin 54.4 s, fibrinogen 954 mg/dl.
A platelet concentrate is transfused at 20 ml/ kg and a right femoral vein is cannulated.
It begins with more respiratory work and important epistaxis difficult to control.
It was decided to notify the otorhinolaryngology, which puts anterior taping.
Despite the lidding, bleeding persists and begins with obtundation and decreased level of consciousness.
low level of consciousness and significant bleeding proceed to sedoanalgesia and secure the airway with intubation.
Once the diaphragm was isolated, the presence of pleural effusion was confirmed by ultrasound, showing encapsulated pleural effusion of 3 cm from scapulae to diaphragm.
Pleural drainage tube was placed in the area of greatest accumulation; 5 intercostal space and posterior axillary line.
After intubation, the patient was hypotensive, with signs of thermal gradient, distal coldness and poor perfusion. Dopamine was initiated at 5 μg/kg/min. The laboratory test showed elevated LDH levels, elevated bilirubin, and increased bilirubin.
We propose as a possible etiology of the condition: a. Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) secondary to pneumococcus.
b.
Septic shock secondary to complicated pneumonia
c. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA).
d. Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP).
e. Post-infectious acute glomerulonephritis (PING).
We would first think of HUS because septic shock is associated with coagulopathy, which is not present in our case.
▁Pneumococcal HUS causes 40% of non-E. coli HUS.
In its pathogenesis the neuraminous of the pneumococcal cholinergic acid sealic acid called Ag T in the membranes of glomerular sclerosis, platelets and endothelium that is exposed.
AutoAc Ag T recognition (IgM) causes hemolysis, platelet aggregation and endothelial damage: direct cooms +.
Our suspicion is probably positive: direct Cooms and pneumococcus in pleural fluid.
b. Coprocultive for E. coli.
ADAMTS 13 < 5%.
d. Genetic study with mutation of H. e. rapid test for H1N1 positive.
The etiological diagnosis of HUS should include the following study: • E. coli: rapid test (ELISA) for detection of STx in▁faeces, coprocultive, sorbitol Mac Conkey agar culture, blood culture, serology.
•▁Pneumococcal: rapid antigen detection test for pneumococcus in pleural fluid, positive direct Coombs, cultures (blood, sputum, CSF...), Coombs test.
• HIV, H1N1: serology.
• A WAY IMPORTANT ANY HUS COMPETITION TO take a plasma sample prior to transfusion for SOLI atypical CSEA activity, if there is ADAMTS 13 and complement study C3, C4, CH50, FH
Our patient raised urea levels to 114 and creatinine to 1.33 despite diuretic treatment, with hyperphosphoremia and refractory hyperkalemia, with a balance of +1,000 ml/kg and diuresis of 0.7 c.
The patient was switched to CVVHDF for 72 hours, withdrew after a decrease in Cr to 0.97 and Urea to 91, and recovered diuresis of 3 cc/kg/h with furosemide.
▁Pneumonia and vancomycin were initially maintained on cefoxime treatment.
On the 5th day of admission after worsening with elevation of APR, meropenem and linezolid were started.
Amikacin was added 4 days later (8th day MV).
She maintained amikacin for 4 days (for 48 hours after extubation), linezolid for 10 days and meropenem for 13 days.
Suspected tabicy pneumonia, three doses of urokinase are administered.
As a secondary complication on the 4 day of MV, the patient developed massive atelectasis of the left lung and right pneumothorax that required HFOV for 5 days, and then continued on CMV for 48 hours.
AT was maintained at high levels of normality for 48 hours, without needing antihypertensive treatment.
Diuretic treatment was withdrawn on the 18th day of admission, with normalization of renal function. Given the persistence of pneumothorax, the drainage tube was maintained until the 28th day of admission.
The patient was reviewed in the pulmonology department with persistent 2 right-sided pneumothorax bubbles, with persistent pachypleuritis.
Normalized renal function.
