Anamnesis A 44-year-old patient presented to the emergency department complaining of weakness of the left limbs for about two weeks.
It is semi-independent for activities of daily living.
Among his antecedents, he emphasized that he was a parenteral drug user until he was 30 years old and a smoker until recently one.
He has chronic liver disease due to hepatitis C virus with portal hypertension data.
In 2011, an emergency laparotomy was performed, followed by a total laryngectomy due to moderately differentiated epidermoid carcinoma of the larynx, accompanied by cervical ganglion consolidation and radiotherapy, which had been completed about a month ago.
The complication was a left cervical abscess and herpes zoster.
He has had a nasogastric tube since then.
In the last toco-abdominal computed tomography (CT) study, a left pulmonary nodule and mediastinal lymphadenopathy were observed, as well as a liver nodule suggestive of hepatocellular carcinoma.
She received treatment with methotrexate and fentanyl▁patches.
Arterial hypertension C.T.126/78 mmHg and temperature 2 or C.
It presents a clear deterioration of the general state and cutaneous signs of radiation in the cervical area.
Language cannot be valued by laryngectomy, it comprises complex orders.
He presents a blurring of the left nasogenian fold, an oculocefic preference towards the right hemisphere and left hemianopsia in the exploration of the visual field by confrontation.
Left hemiparesis with brachial and distal predominance.
Left hemihypoesthesia
Bilateral flexor plantar response.
The rest of the neurological examination is normal.
Additional tests • Complete blood count and basic coagulation study: normal.
• Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 80 bpm.
• Chest X-ray: diffuse bilateral reticular disease.
• Brain CT: subcortical white matter hypodensity in the bilateral parietal and left occipital regions, with no pathological enhancements observed in the postcontrast study.
Computed tomography: bilateral hypodensity in the white matter of parietooccipital region.
• Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): administration of hyperintense T2 and FLAIR sequences with no mass effect that affects the white matter bilateral parietooccipital sequence, predominantly right-sided, and hypointensity.
Brain MRI.
Hypersignal in FLAIR sequence.
Minimal enhancement after administration of contrast in T1 sequence.
• Supraaortic trunk duplex study: no evidence of hemodynamically significant stenosis.
Orthodromic ophthalmic.
• Study of lymphocyte subpopulations:▁lymphocytic▁lymphocytic: 500 c.
• Viral load-HIV: 123,705 cp/ml.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study: 1 cell/uL; 45 mg/dl glucose; 0.3 g/dl total proteins.
• Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for JC virus in CSF: negative.
Diagnosis Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in HIV-positive patients.
The evolution of the triple antiretroviral therapy patient after discharge improves his general condition, persisting at the time of discharge neurological symptoms.
A month later, the Infectious Diseases Unit reviewed the patient, with improvement in CD4 levels and viral load.
