Anamnesis was performed for 42 years and the patient did not receive any radiation therapy. The patient came to the emergency department with frontal and left periorbital headache for one week, lasting 3-5 minutes, with no increasing intensity,
The patient was progressively accompanied by diplopia in the horizontal gaze to the left, as well as left upper and middle facial hypoesthesia, with hypoesthesia and paresis of the left facial muscles, as well as a complete neurological fever during admission.
Among the personal history there were no cerebrovascular risk factors, but there was an episode similar to the current one of headache and diplopia 5 years before, for which he came to another hospital without a clear diagnosis, which was completely resolved.
She had been living in Spain for 15 years, the last trip to her country of origin three years ago.
I worked on construction.
She died of stroke.
She did not report any toxic, drug or herbal products intake.
Physical aspects - Conscious and oriented in the three.
Well hydrated and nourished.
Temperature 36.8 oC, blood pressure 140/96 mmHg, heart rate 64 bpm.
Good distal perfusion.
Eupneic.
Absence of mucocutaneous lesions.
Isochoric and normoreactive hairs to light, no meningism.
Eye fundus was normal.
Paraesthesia of the VI nerve with hypoesthesia in the territory V1,V2,V3, paresis of the mandibular muscles and ipsilateral upper and lower facial paralysis on the left side, without other alterations.
Force and sensitivity in all its modalities preserved symmetrically in the four limbs.
Location: myosin, symmetrical and normocalcium, with bilateral flexor cutaneous reflex.
Coordination, posture and gait were within normal limits.
▁Complementary tests • General biochemistry, blood count, coagulation, autoimmunity, PCR, VSG, electrophoretic and immunoelectrophoretic spectrum, angiotensin converting enzyme, tumor markers and urine sediment were performed.
• Lumbar puncture: opening pressure 14 cm of water.
Crystalline fluid, without blockages
▁Cytobiochemistry of cerebrospinal fluid was within normal limits, flow cytometry and cytology were negative for malignant cells.
IgG index in normal CSF and absence of oligoclonal bands.
• Microbiology: syphilis serology, HIV, Borrelia, hepatotropic virus negative.
Mantoux negative.
Sputum smear negative.
• Cranial computed tomography (CT) (without contrast): it is observed in the left sinus mucosa with respect to the right maxillary sinus, as well as mucosal thickening of the left maxillary sinus.
Non-contrast-enhanced axial cranial computed tomography.
1b.
Axial cranial magnetic resonance imaging T1 with contrast with fat suppression.
A hyperdense image is observed in the left sinus, which captures contrast in magnetic resonance imaging.
• Contrast-enhanced and non-contrast-enhanced cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): a thickening of the left sinus is observed after administration of the contrast agent, which appears to be homogeneous in T2 with enhancement.
A lobule thickening of the dura mater that covers the base of the left temporal lobe and the free edge of the tentorious.
There is also thickening and uptake of the V left cranial nerve in its exit through the foramen ovale, without involvement of perineural structures.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the coronal T1 with contrast and fat suppression.
Pre-treatment.
Two months post-treatment.
We▁appreciated a decrease in uptake in the synovium and the dura mater that covers the base of the temporal lobe.
• CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed no abnormalities.
• PET-CT: increase of the metabolic activity of bilateral and symmetrical character in the palatine tonsils, of inflammatory-infectious character.
No lymphadenopathies with metabolic activity or other foci suggesting abnormal metabolic activity are observed.
• Bilateral biopsied: no malignant cell findings.
Diagnosis Tolosa-Hunt Syndrome.
Treatment Treatment was initiated with nonsteroidal analgesics, and prednisone 1 mg/kg/day for one week, with good response, with escalating descending pattern.
Ev.▁~~~ Resolving completely.
Successive controls were performed using cranial MRI, which showed a significant decrease in the size of the lesions.
