Anamnesis A 69-year-old male with a history of hypertension and chronic renal failure secondary to IgA glomerulopathy.
He received his first kidney transplant in July 1996, with acute steroid-sensitive rejection in the first month after transplantation.
The graft is currently functioning normally.
In July 2012, the patient came to the emergency department with fever, pain in the left iliac fossa (LIIF) and decreased strength in the left lower limb.
Arterial hypertension was present in 128/77 mmHg, temperature was 39.7oC.
Mildly painful abdomen due to palpation in the IIF.
Lower limbs: enlarged left thigh compared to the contralateral thigh, with slight swelling.
▁Complementary tests Tests performed at the first admission: • Blood analysis: creatinine 1 mg/dl, hemoglobin 11 g/dl.
White: 6,500 (normal formula).
• Abdominal ultrasound: perirenal collection, subaortic, which▁surrounds the kidney with a maximum thickness of 4 cm.
Medium size dilation: 2.5 cm.
• Ultrasound of the lower limbs: no signs of deep venous thrombosis.
• Computed tomography (CT) and RU-CT: image of a probable renal infarction in the mesorrhoea with suboptimal dilatation in the infarct/rupture area.
• Renal scintigraphy: hypouptake in the mesoregion with cortical defect.
Tests performed on the second admission: • Analysis of the drenified liquid: serous aspect, pale yellow.
Glucose 107 mg/dl, creatinine 1 mg/dl, sodium 144 UmEq/l, potassium 4 mEq/l, proteins 0.59 mg/dl, albumin 0.6 g/dl, cholesterol 6 mg/dl and triglycerides
Sterile culture and cytological study: negative for malignancy.
• Lower limb and abdominal▁lymphogamma: normal.
• Immunoelectrophoresis (IEF) in serum: 42.2% Alb; 9.9% alpha-1; 19.2% alpha-2; IgM 12.2% beta; 15.7% gamma; 1,101 IgG; 694 IgA.
• Serum immunofixation: monoclonal band IgM lambda (not quantifiable).
• PSI in urine: normal (Ben-Jones: negative).
• FIS drainage liquid: no monoclonal bands.
EPO levels: 8.43 (4-20).
• Beta-2 microglobulin: 2.7 (0.8-2.2).
• Bone marrow biopsy: normal.
•▁Cytological study of bone marrow: 3% plasma cells without atypia.
Diagnosis Analysis of the drennel fluid helped us to rule out various etiological factors such as hematoma, abscess, urinoma or▁lymphocele.
TEM showed the absence of a clear etiologic factor of the perirenal collection and the persistence of the same despite the attempt of sclerotherapy with povidone▁erythropoiesis with a new perimyxemia, reviewing the scientific literature.
Although in our case the patient did not meet any of the items, such as the presence of▁erythrocytosis or hypoxemia, the presence of perirenal collection with bleeding on its surface and monoclonal paraprotein myeloma in multiple myeloma were then forced to perform a bone marrow biopsy.
Although not meeting all criteria for IPMT syndrome, we believe that the findings described above and the patient's response to rituximab made us think about the etiological role of monoclonal gammopathy as responsible for the clinical picture.
Treatment At the first admission, it was decided to start ATB treatment with meropenem and daptomycin and CT-mediated drainage of the collection.
Subsequently, there is a recurrence of the collection, so it is decided to surgically perform marsupialization with povidone-povidone-iodine, placement of a drainage tube, with persistence of high output.
After the finding of monoclonal bands in the serum EPS, it was decided to start treatment with rituximab (350 mg/dl), with disappearance of the collection and clear clinical improvement of the patient.
A clinical improvement was observed in August 2012 after 15 days of ATB treatment.
With the study of negative hypercoagulability and negative Epstein-Pugh score, it was decided to perform a new outpatient follow-up.
In September 2012, the patient came again due to functional impotence of the left lower limb, which prevented her from walking, with local erythema and poor blood pressure control.
Physical examination revealed a blood pressure of 189/104 mmHg.
Afebril.
A renal graft was used in the case of an enlarged IIF and perirenal mass was diagnosed.
Blood analysis showed a slight deterioration of renal function, with creatinine of 1.2 mg/dl.
Urgent ultrasound showed recurrence of the collection subsided.
It was then decided to perform surgery with curative intent: marsupialization of the large collection, probably the placement of the peritoneum underneath, with hemostasis of the T-tube. The kidney required a friable, bleeding appearance.
The aspect of the liquid drained was clear serous.
After surgery, the output was greater than 1,500 ml for one week, with subsequent reduction after one week to <1,000 ml/day, with disappearance of functional impotence.
After finding monoclonal gammopathy in the patient's serum, treatment with the first dose of rituximab began, with a decrease in output of <200 ml/day.
The second dose of rituximab decreased to <50 ml/day, resulting in drainage removal and patient discharge.
