Consultation time Difficulty swallowing
Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Anamnesis: the patient in our case is a 61-year-old male with a personal history of being ex-smoker of a pack of cigarettes per year.
She came to our emergency department because she complained of breathlessness and oppression at the throat level that did not worsen with efforts, as well as difficulty swallowing solids.
As our patient told us, the oppressive sensation lasted no more than two hours and it self-limited spontaneously.
Physical impairment: upon arrival to the emergency department, the patient had a systolic blood pressure of 114 mmHg and a diastolic blood pressure of 86 mmHg.
The heart rate was 75 beats per minute and the SaO2 was 96%.
Our patient was conscious, oriented and cooperative, well hydrated and hemodynamically stable.
Cardiac auscultation revealed normal breathing without breath sounds.
The abdomen was blandom and non-painful to palpation, non-malignant masses or enlargements, as well as signs of peritonitis.
The lower limbs showed no edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
▁Complementary tests The decision was made to perform: electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 68 bpm, normal PR interval, narrow QRS, without acute changes in repolarization.
Blood count, biochemistry and coagulation analysis were normal except for LDH 897.
Radiography PA and L of Thoracic: perihilar image in the right upper pulmonary lobe was observed.
Family and community approach This is a 61-year-old male patient, independent for basic and instrumental activities of daily living.
He's single and lives with his father.
Good family support.
Low socio-cultural level.
The patient was followed up for digestive pathology to be affiliated with his health center.
Clinical judgement (problem finding, differential diagnosis) Infectious granuloma.
Benign pulmonary neoplasia: hamartoma, fibroma.
Malignant lung neoplasm: primary or metastatic.
Rheumatoid nodule.
Wegener's granulomatosis.
Plan of action and evolution The findings are discussed with the▁Pneumology Department and the patient's admission for study is decided together.
Once she was admitted to the hospital, she underwent: -Thorax Tacis: a right hiliar mass with multiple mediastinal lymph nodes and 2 metastases at the level of the hepatic hilium, as well as sacral bone metastases at the coast.
According to this, it would correspond to stage IV (T4N3M1c).
The pulmonary mass exerts a mass effect with partial compression of the superior vena cava.
Fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy showed complete obstruction at the level of the right upper lobe with coagulum at its entry which was not removed.
Brushing and biopsies were performed on the buildings and carina of the right upper lobe.
The diagnosis established by the pathology report of a patient with a right decitic microcytic melanoma at 68x80x60 mm extended to the▁mediastinum, liver and bone level was decided upon discharge after the patient's clinical and analytical stability.
