A 61-year-old male who came to Internal Medicine consultation in June 2010 for the study of an almost daily low-grade fever and occasionally fever greater than 38oC.
His personal history included: hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, hemochromatosis treated with periodic bleeding up to one year before, ex-smoker and carrier of prosthetic mitral valve and stent with ischemic heart disease since 2008.
Six months before, the patient began progressively with fever, asthenia, hypoxia and cough.
In March that same year, he was admitted due to his primary care physician, when three 5-mm peripheral pulmonary micronodules were found.
▁Complementary examinations revealed moderate normochromic anemia, elevated ESR and CRP together with a significant homogeneous anomaly.
No fever was found and she was discharged to continue the study in outpatient clinics.
In April she returned to the emergency room with a fever of 38.7oC and pleuritic pain in the left hemithorax.
Two hemocultives were extracted, which were negative after 5 days of isolation.
Empirical antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid was started with partial improvement of symptoms.
From the internal medicine consultation and due to a new worsening of the symptoms it was decided to admit him.
At that time, the patient presented anemia with iron levels of 34 mcg/dl, a speed of 56mm/h and CRP of 3.6 mg/dl.
The abdominal CT scan showed enlarged spleen with an image compatible with splenic infarction and persistence of the aforementioned pulmonary micronodules.
A transesophageal echocardiogram showed a mechanical mitral prosthesis with two vegetation images, a medial one of 14 x 5 mm and a lateral one of 13 x 4 mm on the ear side.
There was no prosthetic dysfunction.
Three hemocultives are extracted (aerobic and anaerobic blood vessels).
A pleomorphic Gram-positive bacilli grew in the three anaerobes that did not form spores at 7, 8 and 10 days.
The isolation was sent to the National Microbiology Center for acne prone, where it was identified as Propionibacterium by amplification and sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene.
When the growth of an anaerobic gram-positive bacillus in the hemocultives was initially reported, the patient was treated with vancomycin, ceftriaxone and gentamicin.
Ceftriaxone and gentamicin were then combined by clindamycin.
After the suspicion that the microorganism was P. acnes, it was decided to change the antibiotic therapy to sodium penicillin G, 4,000,000 IU every 4 h. The patient's evolution to the beginning of the treatment was favorable, but the second surgical procedure was performed with a new
