A 43-year-old male patient, born in Romania, who has resided in our country for several years, despite which he has a major idiomatic barrier and lives in a precarious social situation (indigence).
His personal history included active smoking and chronic alcohol consumption.
He does not perform treatment on a regular basis and does not refer to adverse drug reactions.
She does not remember a history of tuberculosis (TB) or vaccination or treatment for it.
He had not undergone any surgical intervention until 8 months ago when he suffered an accidental fall from 3 meters high impacting on the right foot with closed fracture of the tibial and fibular pinna, in addition to a small subarachnoid hemorrhage thoracic costal level.
Radiographic condensation in the right upper lobe was also observed, which was interpreted as aspiration pneumonia in this context.
The fracture was reduced with osteosynthetic material (MOS): plates on the tibia and fibula with 8 torn corticosteroid spongy, both in the fibula and tibia.
She was seen now due to swelling of the right ankle with pain, erythema and fluctuating edema with fistulization in the pretibial region.
Antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid and ciprofloxacin was initiated on an outpatient basis due to suspected infection at this level without improvement.
In the anamnesis directed by devices and systems he denied any other associated clinic.
On physical examination, the patient was eupneic and afflictl, had an acceptable general condition with good mucocutaneous coloration, blood pressure of 130/60 mmHg, heart rate at 65 bpm, and basal oxygen saturation of 97%.
Weight: 75 kg.
The patient did not present oropharyngeal muguet and peripheral adenopathies were not present.
Cardiac and respiratory auscultation was normal.
The abdomen was blushing to the apex, painless, with no masses or organomegaly.
Edematization of the right ankle with the previously mentioned findings.
There were no signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Peripheral pulses were present symmetrically.
Neurological examination was normal.
Initial complementary tests were: complete blood count with thrombocytosis (542,000/mm3), hemoglobin, MCV, normal leukocyte count and formula; glycemia 128 mg/dL; abnormal tibial bone marrow secretion anterior-posterior▁tubule consolidation with bone marrow function
▁Right anteroposterior and lateral radiograph: Absence of consolidation of distal tibial epiphysis fracture.
Corticosteroid tapering.
Chest x-ray revealed alveolar infiltrate in the right upper lobe.
Differential diagnosis In summary, this is a patient with reduced tibia and fibula fracture with OS material for 8 months who consulted for inflammation of the right ankle with skin fistulization.
The X-ray shows the lack of consolidation of the reduced fracture with OS material, with fragmentation and migration of some elements, and also maintains a radiological lesion in the right lung apex throughout this process that has not changed.
Analytically, it presents elevation of some acute phase reactants (CRP, platelets, fibrinogen).
In the anamnesis they highlight their country of origin (Rumania) and the epidemiological history of living in poor health conditions as well as chronic consumption of toxics (tobacco and alcohol).
The differential diagnosis therefore focuses on a pseudoarthrosis (absence/ delayed consolidation after 6-8 months since the reduction with MOS), whose risk factors are related to specific localised diabetes mellitus (swelling site), with
The patient was young and did not report constitutional symptoms, although he had risk factors for tuberculosis infection (country of origin of intermediate prevalence, alcoholism, indigence), had risk of normal glycemia, and the fact of being a smoker was young.
The acute or subacute appearance of inflammatory symptoms after an interval of paucis osteomystic stenosis associated with post-reduction infection, accompanied by pain and purulent drainage to the skin, probably communicating with the implanted material, suggests the presence of consolidation.
However, we should not rule out other much less probable etiologies for two reasons: 1.
Osteomyelitis is considered a great simulator since it can show a variable radiological appearance, present in any location, etc.
2.
The existence of a chronic lung injury of uncertain origin.
Therefore, other possible etiologies should be considered in the background: • Primary bone tumor (primary osteocytoma, metastatic primary pulmonary).
• TB (apical pulmonary infiltrate that has not changed in the last 8 months and is asymptomatic and could correspond to residual TB or active TB).
• Mycosis (if the patient has any added acquired immunosuppression factor: HIV infection, cancer, etc.).
• Others: Eosinophilic granuloma, sarcoidosis, histiocytoma... Our diagnostic hypothesis was centered on one side, on a tibial infection associated with OS material, and on the other in an active pulmonary TB (residual).
a. E. HBV and tinwe; previous clinical, epidemiological and initial laboratory data; and when there was a main suspicion of infection of OS material associated with a chronic right-sided Gram-J virus
No acid-fast bacilli resistant were observed in the bacilloscopy, but Mantoux was positive (induration of 20 mm at 48 hours) and serology negative.
The patient was programmed for a complete removal of the OS material from the fibula, but three coughs were maintained in the tibia, and the remaining were successfully removed.
The site was cleaned with very abundant washing, drainage and closure of the wound; intra-operative bone microbiological samples were taken and cultured in the usual media and also for mycobacteria, following the possibility given by Microbiology.
After surgery parenteral cloxacillin was started as empirical treatment.
In cultures, Staphylococcus auerus methicillin-sensitive (SAMS) was isolated in all 4 bone samples, so the initial treatment was maintained and subsequently changed to cefazolin.
The patient was discharged after 14 days of intravenous treatment (iv) with improvement of pain and inflammatory semiology and then began levofloxacin 500 mg every 12 hours orally (vo).
Rifampicin was not associated with this drug until microbiological results for mycobacteria were obtained, so that the coexistence of pulmonary TB could be ruled out or confirmed, avoiding possible monotherapy with this drug.
The first review in the Infectious Diseases consultation after discharge revealed the unexpected presence of positive smears in bone samples.
The results of mycobacterial cultures, which had grown in both respiratory samples and bone samples, were already available at the time of treatment. Rifampicin was identified as rifampicin (16600 mg), and rifampicin was identified as rifampicin (16600 mg).
Pathological studies showed no resistance to R (mutations of the rpoB gene) and H (katG and inhA) in bone samples.
The antibiogram is currently pending and the patient continues to receive the same treatment (first two months).
The appearance of the right side is good, with mild swelling but without other associated inflammatory signs and favorable radiological evolution.
No side effects have been reported.
Final diagnosis Disseminated tuberculosis: • Non- bacilliferous pulmonary tuberculosis.
• Bone tuberculosis associated with osteosyntesis material in the right tibia.
Coinfection with S. aureus MS associated.
Surgical treatment of the same incomplete with partial extraction of such material.
