Anamnesis An 84-year-old man, hypertensive, ex-smoker.
Left hemisphere ischemic strokes in 2000 and 2005.
Amputation of the right lower limb due to ischemia in May 2011.
Chronic treatment with: bisoprol, nor▁acetylsalicylic acid, and candesartán-hydrochlorothiazide.
Urological history: after right lower limb amputation, she suffered several episodes of urinary tract infections treated with antibiotics and a single positive culture for piperacillin-entaem sensitive to Pseudomonas aeruginosa and imiprone only.
Several self-limiting episodes of hematuria in the last 4 months, with normal blood count and serum biochemistry.
The patient came to the Emergency Department (14/10/2011) due to deterioration of general status, diffuse abdominal pain and macroscopic hematuria of weeks of evolution.
There is no fever, nausea or voiding syndrome.
Physical impairment Conscious, epneic, and affilial, with marked cutaneous-mucosal dryness.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal.
Arterial hypertension 104/51 mmHg.
Heart rate 65 bpm.
The abdomen was blandom, non-painful, with negative bilateral percussion.
Normal external genitals.
Rectal examination: fibroelastic prostate, II/IV, mobile, non-painful.
▁Complementary tests • Blood analysis (on arrival to the Emergency Department): hemoglobin 4.6 g/dl, hematocrit 14.4%, 452,000 platelets/mm3, 10,080 leukocytes/mm3 (neutrophils 79.2%).
Prothrombin time 62%, glucose 100 mg/dl, urea 284 mg/dl, creatinine 8.97 mg/dl, Na+ 137 mEq/l, K+ 7.2 mEq/l.
• Urine: density 1.015; pH 8.
Sedation with macroscopic hematuria and microleucocyturia.
• Urine culture: Klebsiella pneumoniae, ampicillin-resistant only.
• Abdominal ultrasound: atrophic right kidney (5.6 cm longitudinal axis).
Left kidney with occupation of the pyelocaliceal-infundibulum system by hyperechoic images detaching posterior acoustic shadowing, compatible with lithiasis.
No dilatation of the excretory systems or lithiasis in the ureteral tract was observed.
Not evaluable bladder.
Prostate 60 cc.
Return of normal abdominal structures
• Unenhanced abdominal computed tomography (CT): atrophic right kidney.
Normal-sized left kidney with mild ectasia of the excretory system, which shows a thickened wall with calcification of the mucosal surface in almost all its course, of nonspecific nature.
Wrestling bladder, with mucosal calcification in the posterior wall.
Pleural effusion was observed.
Diagnosis: Pyelitis encrusted in functioning single kidney due to Klebsiella pneumoniae.
Treatment and evolution On arrival of the patient, a bladder catheter was placed and the patient underwent voiding transfusion.
Hematuria varies in intensity over the days, and does not disappear at any time.
Antibiotic treatment was initiated with piperacillin- urinary acidosis (8.2/0.5 g every 8 h), based on previous urine culture and ascortic acid suspended by metabolic acidosis (500 mg/8 h) for acidification of urine
After several sessions of hemodialysis and transfusions, there is a progressive deterioration of renal function, despite a daily diuresis of 1,500 cc.
On the twelfth day of admission, the patient presented with atrial fibrillation, heart failure and chest pain with myocardial damage.
The patient and his family refuse more aggressive treatments, dying 15 days after admission.
