A 44-year-old male, obese, without other known cardiovascular risk factors, ex-addict to inhaled drugs for 10 years and ex-drinker for a year, with no current toxic habits of pancreatitis and 2006.
He has resided in a dehabituation center for a year.
He came to the emergency room for three days of intense cough with purulent sputum, fever of 41oC with "tiritone" and liquid stools.
Time before going to the hospital begins with progressive dyspnea, hemoptysis and hematuria.
On physical examination upon arrival, the patient was found to have a poor general condition, was conscious and oriented towards mucocutaneous disease and intense respiratory work.
98% saturation with high-flow CPAP and blood pressure 220/130 mmHg.
Upon auscultation, he was tachycardic and vesicular murmur was decreased with generalized crackles in both lung fields.
There are no other findings of interest in the examination.
Empirical antibiotic therapy was initiated with cefoxime community acquired pneumonia (2 intravenous gr every 6 hours) and levofloxacin (500 mg iv every 12 hours) in order to cover the most common microorganisms causing NA.
Serial hemocultives were extracted and urine samples for Neumococo and Legionella antigens were obtained.
A first analytical determination was performed, highlighting previously unknown renal failure, thrombopenia,▁lymphopenia and alteration of basic coagulation parameters (see Table 1).
The initial chest X-ray (XXR) showed bilateral alveolar pulmonary infiltrates, with left paralysis level, bilateral nodular pinching with bilateral alveolar septal defect and retrosternal aerial narrowing in the lateral aspect.
After initial measurements, the patient deteriorated, hypotension appeared, hypoxemia was increased and the patient was admitted to the ICU where orotracheal intubation was required.
After OTI several bronchial aspirate samples (BAS) were extracted.
Differential diagnosis We are faced with a patient who is admitted in a situation of sepsis due to CAP.
The main microorganisms causing CAP are: • Streptococcus pneumoniae: microorganism mainly producing pneumonia although it can cause infections at other levels (primary peritonitis in renally ill patients, meningitis, etc).
• Haemophilus influenzae: its incidence has decreased after the introduction of vaccination against type b, but we should suspect it in elderly patients or those with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
• Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae: can be found, like others colonizing the pharynx of elderly people, zyrotic people, diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease, malnutrition or active neoplasia.
• Coxiella burni: it should be suspected in patients exposed to animals (frosts,▁rodents, birds or tick bites) in endemic areas.
In the case of severe CAP, such as that presented by our patient, we should also consider: • Staphylococcus aureus: especially if there is any type of immunosuppression (alcoholic, parenteral, diabetic, influenza-like illness) reported.
Leukocidin producing strains of Panton-Valentine, especially strains of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) can cause severe necrotizing pneumonia.
Therefore, it should be considered in a previously healthy young adult or a child with a rapidly progressive pulmonary infection accompanied by pulmonary necrosis, shock and neutropenia.
• Influenza virus (Influenzavirus A,B or C): its diagnosis is usually clinical and the most common symptoms are chills, fever, myalgia, headache, todinophagia and/or pain.u
It can also cause viral pneumonia or bacterial overinfections.
In the case of H5N1 virus infection, a severe infection with pneumonia, occasionally haemorrhagic and severe, can occur.
• Legionella pneumophila: by inhalation of contaminated aerosols.
People with chronic diseases, smoking, elderly or immunosuppressed, fundamentally ill, are at increased risk.
Antigenuria for Legionella pneumophila is a rapid detection method, with high sensitivity and specificity, should be complemented with techniques for DNA detection by PCR and direct immunofluorescence.
• Chlamydophila (Chlamydia) pneumoniae: it is difficult to estimate its incidence due to the difficulties involved in its diagnosis, which can be performed by serology (microimmunofluorescence), immunohistochemistry, PCR or culture.
• Mycoplasma pneumoniae: pathogen mainly in children and adolescents but increasingly frequent in adults, especially the elderly.
The diagnostic methods include culture (slow-growing), PCR and serology with IgM (increase at the end of the first week) and IgG.
• Anaerobes infection: aspiration, presence of pulmonary cavity in a patient predisposed to bronchoaspiration or purulent secretion (sputum or empyema).
• Infection due to Aspergillus spp. mainly causes allergic alveolitis and asthma, chronic sinusitis in atopic patients, or allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.
▁Pneumonia usually occurs in patients with severe and prolonged neutropenia, chronic granulomatous disease, COPD, alcoholism, liver cirrhosis and/or diabetes mellitus.
In the first 12 hours after admission to the ICU, progressive deterioration is maintained, with a need for vasoactive amines, renal failure and respiratory failure are established.
Persistent BASH is added to the initial treatment Linezolid (600 mg every 12 hours iv) and the microbiological study is extended, adding to the determination of the influenza virus in HIV serology.
In this period we began to obtain the microbiological results of the samples initially extracted: in the first tandem of hemocultives methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) grows, as well as in the profile of Aspergillus fum.
Sputum smear was negative, as well as antigenuria for pneumococci and legionella and influenza determination.
The serology was negative for HIV, HBV and pneumonias a: Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Coxiella burnetti and Legionella pneumophila.
The determination of IgG antibodies HCV was positive so PCR was performed for detection of viral RNA that is negative.
These results extend the study and B-D Glucan and Ga-manano are requested in serum and BAS, and then the antibiologic agent Linezolid and current antifungal therapy are modified.
Hemocultivations towards treating MRSA remain positive 24 hours after the start of treatment.
After 48 hours they become negative.
The determination of Gabonemanano and Glucan B-D serum and Gabonemanano in BAS were positive.
Clinical, laboratory and radiological stabilization was achieved 72 hours after admission.
Antibiotic therapy was continued until day 7 when a new fever peak appeared, accompanied by clear clinical deterioration.
New microbiological samples were collected: serial hemocultive, urocultive, BAS.
We review the central catheter with no infection data and perform transesophageal echocardiography in which there are no vesicular lesions of endocarditis.
On day 11, the patient died.
The results of the last hemocultives, urocultive and BAS were negative.
Final diagnosis Septic shock with multiorgan failure due to MRSA bacteremia CAP.
Colonization by Aspergillus fumigatus.
