We report the case of a 21-year-old male, without known drug allergies, anabolic drug user for sports purposes, and with a history of childhood hyperactivity disorder, current depressive episodes without treatment.
A year and a half ago, a new surgery was performed in a private center to remove nails under spinal anesthesia without immediate complications.
The next day, after the appearance of a mental illness, she developed severe holocrane headache and nausea, so she was given analgesics.
Progressively, in the following hours, he begins with a tendency to sleep, uncomprehensible language and bruxism, and inability to wake up, with a Glasgow coma scale (GCS) 10/15 points (a)
A CT scan of the head was performed in which subarachnoid hemorrhage was suspected and the patient was transferred to the referral hospital.
While waiting for an ambulance, the patient developed seizures with tremor during placement 35 minutes, with great▁rigidity and impossibility of oropharyngeal perfusion, requiring diazepam and, due to the poor response, midazolam.
Upon arrival of the critical care device (CCUG) for transfer, the patient developed fever of 39oC, and again presented seizures described as tonic-clonic movements generalized with orotracheal intubation and trimus.
When it is received in our hospital, it has 99% oxygen saturation with 100% FiO2, blood pressure 125/74mmHg, heart rate 96 bpm.
The physical examination did not reveal any relevant findings with a neurological examination, under sedoanalgesia with propofol and midazolam, with isochoric and reactive light pupils.
A CT angiography was requested showing: enhancement of the polygonal vessels with diffuse stenosis, partial collapse of the mesencef of the posterior cerebral artery and left hemi-adrigeminal artery; high density images of the left hemisphere.
Analytically, leukocytes were detected in 280 leukocytes/ml with neutrophilia (92.1%), C-reactive protein 104.7mg/l and procalcitonin 17.73 ng/ml.
The gas sample pH 7.32; pCO2 53mmHg; and bicarbonate 26.7mEq/l.
In coagulation, prothrombin activity is 62%, activated partial thromboplastin time is 25.5 seconds and fibrinogen 442 mg/dl.
Urine toxicology studies were also requested with positive results for▁benzodiazepines and cannabis.
Chest X-ray showed a small right basal infiltrate probably related to bronchoaspiration.
Differential diagnosis In the case presented here, we must take into account the sudden onset of headache with subsequent neurological impairment, fever and the fact that the patient underwent spinal anesthesia.
This differential diagnosis should include: • Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH).
It is caused by the rupture of an intracranial aneurysm, and presents with headache of great intensity and sudden onset, usually accompanied by photophobia, sonophobia, nausea and vomiting.
Transient loss of consciousness, disorientation, somnolence and coma may also be associated.
Diagnosis requires a cranial tomography and lumbar puncture.
In the case of puncture, the patient usually presents high opening pressure, liquid or non-coagulated, and x-ray positive, which is diagnosed as SAH.
In addition, CT angiography should be performed to locate the source of bleeding (aneurysm, AVM) or cerebral arteriography.
• Cerebral venous thrombosis.
It has a subacute onset, although it may appear suddenly or chronically.
The most frequent and early symptom is headache, with nonspecific characteristics, progressive, intense and accompanied by symptoms and signs of intracranial hypertension.
Transient loss of vision, focal neurological symptoms and progressive decrease in consciousness and seizures may occur.
The etiology of venous thrombosis is diverse, including coagulation disorders and infectious processes.
(MR) and/or angioMR.
However, cranial tomography may show indirect signs that guide us to this diagnosis.
• Meningitis.
It is usually produced by contiguity from a parameningeal infection, dissemination, or iatrogenic focus.
Its clinical presentation is explosive and short-term (in hours) with fever, neck stiffness, altered level of consciousness and headache.
For its diagnosis must present at least one of the symptoms of the classic triad, and we will base ourselves on the cytobiochemical characteristics of the CSF as well as the identification of a germ by culture and/or polymerase chain reaction.
It should be considered as the main clinical suspicion.
• Encephalitis.
It usually begins as a pseudo-gray picture with discrete behavioral changes, followed by fever, headache, meningeal signs, decreased level of consciousness, confusion, seizures and seizures.
A lumbar puncture must be performed for diagnosis, showing cerebrospinal fluid with characteristics typical of viral meningitis.
• Headache after puncture.
It occurs in the first days after lumbar puncture, appears in the sitting position and improves with decubitus.
It is often accompanied by neck stiffness, is not pulsatile and its intensity is variable.
It may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting, photophobia, drowsiness, diplopia, tinnitus, etc.
30 x dl leukocyte adhesion, lumbar puncture with turbid cerebrospinal fluid and whose biochemical study shows 30.443/l, 95% polymorphonuclear, 3.600 mg/m, glucose 80mg/dl, lactate 90.5
Once the results of the samples taken in the lumbar puncture with cytobiochemistry compatible with bacterial infection were obtained, empirical antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone and vancomycin was initiated along with corticotherapy.
It was decided to perform an EEG that does not show eeptiform activity, as well as a new brain tomography that impresses a dubious thrombosis of the sinuses by magnetic resonance imaging.
After withdrawal of sedoanalgesia and mechanical ventilation, the patient remains awake without neurological focus.
On the other hand, on arrival, a small infiltrate was observed on chest X-ray in relation to aspiration secondary to low level of consciousness and disappears in the radiological control, with no incidences and respiratory symptoms.
At the analytical level, acute phase reactants gradually decreased until normalization.
No germ is isolated in CSF, blood and urine cultures, although the 16s rRNA gene for S. salivarius is positive in CSF samples.
During admission, the patient was consulted with Hematology due to prothrombin activity <60% and successive analytical controls. A coagulation study was carried out, which showed mild factor VII deficiency and hypobinogenemia.
Once stabilized, the patient remains hospitalized and antibiotic therapy is maintained for 14 days.
In our unit, despite being well-founded, magnetic resonance imaging refers to thrombosis of the parietal cortex inflammation TC in the first three nights of admission to the plant, with a normal neurological examination, without▁rigidity of the neck or other intracranial signs.
Anticoagulation therapy with acenocoumarol was initiated until 3-6 months of follow-up.
The clinical course is favorable and visual manifestations also disappear.
The trauma surgical wound was reevaluated with good evolution and no signs of overinfection.
However, the patient presented with a new febrile episode without clear infectious focus, except for rhinorrhea and pharyngeal discomfort without other symptoms.
A chest X-ray showed no findings, a normal urine systematic and samples were taken for hemocultive and urocultive; however, a new lumbar puncture with clear and transparent CSF outflow was proposed.
The results of the hemocultives and urocultives are negative, the pharyngeal symptoms and the fever disappear.
Final diagnosis • Bacterial meningitis due to S. salivarius as probable etiology.
• Thrombosis of cortical vein and dural sinuses, transverse, right sigmoid and superior longitudinal.
