Anamnesis A 66-year-old woman, right-handed, teacher, with a history of dyslipidemia treated with atorvastatin 10 mg/day.
Consultation for presenting for about 2 months, memory failures increasingly frequent, difficulty to find the appropriate word in the course of conversation and to evoke names of everyday objects.
He has lost some object of value, has disoriented himself in well-known places, and when driving by streets which are customary for her he has moved in a prohibited direction.
It also decreases the ability to keep attention and concentrate, sometimes reaching "blocking" and not being able to continue with the intellectual activity that he was doing.
It is believed that these symptoms have gradually progressed towards becoming manifest.
In addition, for about 10 days, she has had almost daily episodes of paresthesia in the lower part of the left hemisphere, lasting minutes, and sometimes periorbital "puncture" pain.
It also describes recent onset of asthenia and▁daytime sleepiness.
Love good mood.
Physical examination revealed hypertension 130/70 mmHg, pulse 75 bpm, axillary temperature 36.2 oC.
Cooperative.
Not carotid bruits.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal.
No skin changes.
Neurological examination revealed left facial hypoesthesia in the V3 region, with the rest of the cranial nerves being normal.
Osteotendinous reflexes are symmetric to 1⁄4, and cutaneous-plantar reflexes are in flexion.
There is no motor deficit in the limbs or alteration of deep or superficial sensitivity.
Cerebellar tests are normal.
The Romberg test was negative and the gait was normal.
MMSE: 27/30 points, with two temporal-spatial orientation failures and one attention and▁calculus failure.
Language is fluid, grammatically correct, without paraphasias or alteration in the naming.
Writing and reading are normal.
There is a loss of ability for attention and concentration.
There are no deficits in praxis or gnosia and in the mnesic area the values are appropriate for their age and educational level.
The score for depression on the Hybrid test is normal.
▁Complementary tests • Brain MRI: isolated foci of leukoaraiosis in the white matter of both hemispheres, without other alterations.
Axial brain magnetic resonance imaging showed isolated foci of leukoaraiosis.
• 18-FDG PET of brain metabolism: no alterations in cerebral cortex metabolism, basal▁ganglia, thalamic, mesencephalous, trunk or cerebellar hemisphere regions.
18-FDG PET of brain metabolism.
Axial projection at the level of the basal▁ganglia.
Study within normal limits.
• EEG: normal background activity (10 Hz, 50 uV).
No abnormalities were observed at rest or under stimulation.
• Blood tests: blood count, ESR, coagulation tests without alterations.
Folic acid, vitamin B12, homocysteine, ACE, basal TSH, vitamin E and B12, ionogram, hepatic and renal function and lipid profile were normal.
ANA, ANA, ANCA negative.
Ac.
antiendomysium and antigliadin, a-TPO, a-TGB negative.
HIV negative.
Serology of syphilis VDRL: negative.
Serology Lyme (Borrelia burgdorferi): IgM positive (45/0.32); IgG negative.
Serology Lyme.
Confirmatory.
Immunoblot: IgM positive.
• CSF analysis: glucose 68 mg/dl, protein 41.6 mg/dl.
Cells 0/ul.
Oligoclonal bands in both CSF and serum, with a plateau pattern.
IgG/albumin ratio: 0.39.
Bacteriological culture was negative.
Syphilis screening was negative.
Serology Lyme: negative.
14.3.3 negative.
Onconeuronal antibodies were negative.
Diagnosis Recurrent hemifacial paresthesia in a patient with complaints of memory loss and impaired ability to concentrate, episodes of disorientation and confusion, associated with a positive IgM serology for Borreeliosis is suggestive of Borreferenburg.
Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment was initiated with intravenous ceftriaxone 2 g/12 h for one month and oral ceftriaxone 100 mg/12 h for 12 weeks, resulting in progressive improvement.
The failure to respond was associated with two weeks of treatment, hemifacial alteration and headache, hypersomnia, asthenia, confusional episodes, memory complaints and depression.
