A 52-year-old male, professional farmer, was admitted with generalized arthritis and▁malaise.
The patient had a history of hypertension, chronic renal failure, dyslipidemia.
The patient consults because approximately 4 days before, while cleaning a dry acequia, he notices a sting in the posterior part of the right thigh without being able to identify the insect.
After 24 hours, the area is approximately 2-3 cm pale with well-defined edges, so they were prescribed intramuscular methylprednisolone. 48 hours later, an erythematous and painful area appears around the lesion.
On the third day, the patient presented with more erythema and pain with dysthermic sensation. Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid were prescribed without improvement, so she was seen in the emergency department.
On ultrasound of this marked muscle thickening with increased echogenicity of subcutaneous fat and punched image in superficial planes.
The blood count showed 8,700 leukocytes (81.5% neutrophils), Hb15.7 mg/dl and 120,000 platelets.
The biochemical tests showed CRP 24 mg/L, creatinine 37/1.4 mg/dl.
Due to the torpid evolution of the lesion, the patient was admitted to the Surgery Department and was treated with piperacillin tazo.
After 48 hours, they consulted the Internal Medicine Department due to poor evolution of the lesion.
The examination revealed an erythematous, warm and painful lesion on the posterior and internal face of the right thigh extending from the popliteal hollow to the glue fold and the root of the right lower limb, with a central whitish lesion
After performing a differential diagnosis with compatible lesions, it was concluded that it could be a cutaneous loxocelism, confirming the evolution of the lesion.
Loxocelism is a poisoning caused by brown-colored spiders (Loxosceles spp.)
they are species of arachnids that can cause necrotic arachnoidism.
They cause pain, erythema and local edema, followed by necrosis.
However, little is known about the specific mechanisms by which Loxosceles venom exerts these harmful symptoms.
In the Mediterranean area Rufescens is the most common species and usually is found in dark areas and causes only cutaneous manifestations.
The evolution of the lesions in our patient supported this diagnosis since a few days after the onset of symptoms, although the evolution of the perixolesional hypersensitivity had improved with antibiotic therapy, a gallbladder appeared, which was later converted into a ulcer.
In addition, complementary examinations (serology, autoimmunity, hemocultive and culture of the bulla fluid) were negative for other entities.
A review of the treatment and management of this condition was carried out, focusing on local measures such as cleaning the wound, local cold, high position of the affected limb, analgesia, tetanus prophylaxis and antibiotic if suspected overinfection.
In addition to treatment for the prevention of necrosis where there is no clear evidence that attitude would be advisable to follow (dapsone 100 doses of tetracycline, antihistamines or hyperbaric oxygen) In our case (50 hours of initial suspicion).
The patient required outpatient cures every 48 hours by nurses for 1 month and a half approximated with progressive improvement of the lesion.
