Anamnesis A 56-year-old patient with a history of HIV infection treated with Dolutegravir/ Abacavir/La sembla (affecting face and Triumeq®) who complained of pruriginous neck rash for two months.
The patient denied fever or poor general condition, with no pruritus in any other body area.
He did not relate the eruption with any precipitant precisely.
a Physical examination revealed follicular▁papules and pustules, some of which were erosive, distributed by men, mental disorder, manbula, minor malarious areas.
There were no lesions in the trunk or extremities, no mucosal lesions or lesions in the genital area, but neither submandibular or periauricular lymphadenopathies.
▁Complementary histological study. Given the different diagnostic suspicions we requested a blood test,▁exudate from one of the pustules for culture, we took a sample of a lesion for PCR of herpes simplex virus
Blood analysis showed an improvement in CD4+ lymphocyte count from 200/L to 475/L after the beginning of treatment without any other remarkable change.
On the other hand, in the▁exudate of the sample taken from one of the pustules, a mixed cutaneous flora growth was obtained without having diagnostic relevance.
PCR for HSV 1 and 2 was negative.
Skin biopsy showed▁lymphocytic infiltrate with abundant▁eosinophils, preferably perifollicular, but also with a superficial perivascular component accompanied by interstitial collagen.
The epidermis showed a vesicle with serous material and mixed inflammatory infiltrate composed of polymorphonuclear and▁eosinophils.
The epithelium of the follicular infundibulum was also cleared of▁eosinophils with a pattern of eosinophilic spongiosis.
Diagnosis Based on these clinical, pathological and analytical findings, the diagnosis of eosinophilic follicosis was established, probably within the context of reconstitution in HIV patient after starting antiretroviral therapy.
Treatment Previously to obtaining the results of the complementary tests and when there was a clinical suspicion of a herpetic infection with onset of dissemination, Valavir 1 g was started every 12 hours and scheduled for revision in 9 days.
Once the results of the complementary tests were obtained and the diagnosis was established, treatment with Methylprednisolone Aceponate 1 mg/g in emulsion was established, with review in one month.
The patient remained stable after the first visit and remained stable after the first consultation. No new lesions appeared and no improvement was observed. The patient continued treatment with Val and CRA awaited another week.
Two weeks later, with a definitive diagnosis, treatment with topical corticosteroids was started, with a new review in one month.
In the last review, the patient showed a notable improvement with fewer lesions, and these less pruritic count. Both these lesions were resolved with the introduction of methylprednisolone CDA in topical lymphocytes and with a platelet count.
