Personal history No personal history of interest.
Natural from Benin, he was living in Burkina Faso and Argia cutaneousa where he presented fever, pain in the upper limbs and hypoesthetic macular lesions, receiving treatment that we do not know.
Current disease arrived in September 2009 in a backyard in Algeciras, where she presented fever, fingertip pain in the fingertip and semiology of high tuberculous lymph node predominance with focal pleural effusion and pleural fluid collections.
Treatment is directed to the Acidosis Center of Cruz Roja (Cordoba), and to the general symptomatology for assessment, referring to the patient with diffuse abdominal discomfort, nausea and progressive loss of vision.
The patient also had rhinorrhea, loss of distal sensitivity in both lower limbs and hypochromic macules for months.
Physical examination showed good general condition, well nourished and hydrated.
The patient presented with a tapering, eupneic leukomas in the face and skull, without presenting lagophthalmos.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation was normal.
She presented pain to palpation of the right hemiabdomen and cryptorchidism, as well as retraction of the fifth finger of the left hand, and necrosis of the fingertips of both feet.
Distributed by the whole trunk and less by upper limbs, several macular lesions of different size, hypoesthetic and hypochrome stood out.
No lymphadenopathies were detected.
As for the neurological examination, there were: left foot osteotendon, bilateral hypotenar marches, decreased quadriceps and ischiotibial strength, bipedius reflex paresis, and bipedius reflex coordination - tabopo
▁Complementary laboratory tests showed normal bladder compliance (absence of bladder cancer); complete normal biochemical tests except CK 673 U/L; urinalysis was normal.
Sputum smears and serial sputum cultures were negative.
The serology of HIV, hepatitis B and C virus, Epstein-infection virus,▁Cytomegalovirus, Leishmania and Toxoplasma were negative for acute infection.
Tuberculin skin test with 12 mm induration.
The chest X-ray showed obliteration of the right costophrenic sinus.
Abdominal ultrasound showed no remarkable findings.
A bone map was made, finding a calcification in the interosseous margins of both knees (Pedegrini-Stiese disease), Dupuytren retraction in the right hand and loss of the last two feet.
In the electroneurogram and electromyography of peroneal and ulnar nerves, she presented severe polyneuropathic, restrictive and motor extension, with a demyelinating character and with upper and lower limbs.
Clinical judgement Leprosy multi-bacilar.
Pleural tuberculosis likely.
Sepsis was performed by a multidisciplinary assessment of the patient by the Pathological Pathogenesis, Neurology and Ophthalmology,▁concluding all evaluations in the correspondence of the clinical picture with leprosy.
The following recommendations were made to the patient: - Daily practice of hand and foot mobilization exercises.
- Daily skin care, using hydride cream gel, with a daily shower, then applied throughout the body, especially hydride cream, applied and restructured;
- Avoid exposure to heat in areas without tenderness.
- Use blunt footwear and better if adapted.
- Daily eye care with the application of artificial eye drops (one drop every 1-2 hours during the day) and nighttime epithelizing ointment at bedtime.
The patient was treated for tuberculosis and received two months of treatment rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and etambu bag and rifampicin plus isoniazid for the following four months.
This regimen includes methotrexate 100 mg, a tablet up to one year (the patient had already completed the standard treatment with three drugs -dapsone, rifampicin and clomiphene- for more than one year).
After the initial treatment, the patient went to the clinic on April 15, 2010 and was stable, without any new medical problem.
We contacted the Centre to direct the patient to the location for evaluation and follow-up.
The Ophthalmology Department pending corneal transplantation
