A 25-year-old male patient, born in Ghana.
She came to the emergency room for abdominal pain of months of evolution along with pruritic rash and occasional diarrheal stools with perianal pruritus, without pathological products.
Physical examination was normal.
A coprocultive request was made showing adult forms of stercolaris yloides.
These findings were extended with serology: HCV and negative, HBV: anti-HCV negative.
HBsAg positive.
anti-HBc total positive (AgM anti-HB core negative).
No change in the proteinogram.
HTLV type 1 positive serology.
Abdominal ultrasound revealed retroperitoneal lymph nodes measuring approximately 1 cm.
Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed no pathological findings and samples were taken from the second portion of the duodenum and stomach showing gastritis and acute duodenitis secondary to the presence of intestinal▁parasites morphologically compatible with strongyloides.
Treatment was initiated with albendazole 400 mg/12h for 7 days with resolution of the symptoms.
The patient was followed up for 2 years, and was readmitted for abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and was initially diagnosed with acute pancreatitis.
A CT scan with marked dyssynthetic duodenum and a cyst that suggested slow intestinal transit was performed.
ADD with nonspecific gastric and duodenal erythema and incompetent cardia with persistent▁polyposis and morphologically compatible with strongyloides in PsA.
Treatment was initiated with topical Iversus 3mg 2 tablets a day for 2 days every 6 weeks.
An irregular follow-up was conducted in 2016, where intra-criminal ADD persisted.
In December 2016, the patient was readmitted for respiratory symptoms with bilateral interstitial infiltrate requiring admission to the ICU, and subsequently underwent▁bronchoscopy revealed alveolar hemorrhage with bronchoalveolar lavage and strongyloides stercolaris.
Treatment was initiated with I verdict and albendazole, with a torpid evolution towards improvement.
In addition, the patient presented a picture compatible with▁lymphocytic meningoencephalitis with the presence of HTLV in CSF.
The patient had discontinued treatment with ivermectin approximately 3 months earlier due to problems with drug delivery.
