This is a 38-year-old patient, without personal interest, who came to the emergency room of the hospital due to fever and fever of 39 degrees of ulceration associated with headache and severe general▁malaise.
The patient's history revealed that he had returned seven days ago from a rural area in South Africa.
He had not taken malaria prophylaxis.
The patient also presented a lesion in the left glue and right pituitary gland (picture that the patient presented).
His girlfriend had several similar skin lesions, although asymptomatic.
There were no other symptoms that could explain an infectious focus.
Physical examination revealed a patient with acceptable general status: fever ( temperature 39 °C), blood pressure 120/70, pulse 90, saturation 98%.
The superior functions were preserved.
The rest of the physical examination was normal, except for two lesions, as observed in Figure 1 of 0.5 cm, in the glúte and the painful satellite region▁surrounded by a regional adenopathy, recipeier.
No organomegaly or adenopathies were observed at other levels, nor exanthema.
The laboratory tests showed a erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 20; C-reactive protein of 3.59; 4,500 leukocytes with 70.8% segmented; 14.4% lymphocytes transvicamic acid of 13,2; 99.2% glutamic creatinine and pyramic acid of 13,2;
The rest of laboratory parameters were normal.
The elemental urine analysis and chest X-ray were normal.
The thick smear test was negative.
A patient who, after a trip, presents fever and lesions suggestive of bites, must always think of pictures produced by imported ritesias.
With the diagnosis of suspected fever secondary to rickettsiosis began treatment after ication with picture 100 mg/12 hours for 10 days.
After 48 hours the patient presented with fever and progressively disappeared in the following days.
Immunofluorescence revealed immunoglobulin M titres of 1/160.
Treatment is the same as that of Mediterranean spotted fever (MBF): the 200 mg every 12 hours for 7 to 10 days.
An alternative is ciprofloxacin at a dose of 500 mg every 12 hours for 10 days.
Complications are rare.
African tick bite fever is due to Ritsia africae, which has been known since the early twentieth century and was first documented in Zimbabwe in 1992.
It is produced by the tick bite Amblyomma hebraeum and Amblyomma egatum, which parasitizes cattle and wild animals and bites humans.
This tick is not a specific host, so infections are not sporadic, but endemic to sub-Saharan regions.
It should be suspected in people who have traveled to sub-Saharan Africa and may have been in contact with cattle or wild animals.
The instillation period is 6-7 days.
Clinically, fever, headache, myalgia, lesions suggestive of bites in associated painful lymphadenopathies appear abruptly.
