A 70-year-old male without known drug allergies, hypertension, non-insulin dependent type 2 diabetes mellitus, central obesity.
The patient had been a former smoker for more than 20 years, with SAHS and good adaptation to home CPAP.
Permanent anticoagulated AF with normal LVEF.
Independent for all basic activities of daily living, dyspnea on moderate exertion, NYHA III.
In chronic treatment with: rivaroxaban 20 mg, irbesartan 300 mg, doxazosine 4 mg, furosemide 40 mg, alogliptin 12.5 mg and metformin 1000 mg, purulent sputum with minimal effort.
He was evaluated by a primary care physician, starting treatment with bronchodilators, mucolytics and 500 mg of beta blockers (have taken two doses) without evident clinical improvement.
She did not report chest pain or episodes of chest pain.
Physical examination revealed basal oxygen saturation of 89%, ranging from 95-97% with nasal gaphae at 3 bpm, arrhythmic heart sounds, rhoncus, and abnormal auscultation dispersed lower limbs.
The laboratory tests showed a CRP of 9.63 mg/dl, the rest of the biochemical tests, blood count and coagulation were normal.
Arterial gasses: pH 7.49, SpO2 38 mmHg, pO2 54 mmHg, HCO3 29 mmEq/L, sat.O2 88%, FiO2 21%, lactate 0.8 mmol/L.
Antigenuria for Legionella and Neumoco was negative.
ECG showed atrial fibrillation at 80 bpm with no changes in repolarization.
Chest X-ray: increased density for the right parahiliar with signs of vascular malformations (see picture attached).
The sputum culture showed an increase in the sensitivity of ampicillin and cefuroxime to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, amoxicillin-acetate, gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, cotrimazol.
Therefore, treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid started on admission was maintained.
The patient presented good clinical evolution in the plant and was discharged with the diagnosis of community-acquired pneumonia caused by Kluyver lobule-crescens and partial acute respiratory failure.
Kluyver illustration is a gram negative enterobacteria that is a rare cause of relevant human infection.
However, there are some cases described in the literature especially in patients who develop septic processes.
