We report the case of a 53-year-old male smoker with HIV infection and HCV.
The immunovirological status of the patient was 140 CD4/μL and 6,892,470 copies of viral RNA/ml.
Antiretroviral therapy had begun one week earlier with darunavir, coworker, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine.
He had not received treatment for HCV infection, the last viral load detected (four years before) was 14,261,452 copies of viral RNA/ml.
Consultation in the Emergency Department due to dysthermic sensation that had increased in recent weeks, presenting daily fever with profuse sweating, for one month.
He also reported epigastric pain and heartburn after ingestion, feeling of postprandial fullness, early satiety and occasional diarrheal stools with red blood, all of which also had a month of evolution.
Finally, she reported cough and whitish expectoration.
On examination, the patient presented mucocutaneous and eupneic paleness at rest, conscious, oriented and collaborating.
The patient was febrile (39.7 oC), with blood pressure of 93/64 mmHg, heart rate of 104 beats per minute and oxygen saturation of 96% breathing room air.
Upon auscultation, the patient presented rhythmic tone without audible murmurs and a vesicular murmur preserved.
At the ganglionic level, some adenopathies appeared approximately 1 cm apart, without lymph nodes at other levels.
The location of the abdominal wall was blando and prepredictable, not painful to the apexification. There was no peritonization data, with presence of hydroair sounds, and hepatomegaly was observed.
The rest of the examination showed no other alterations.
Chest and abdominal X-rays showed no significant findings.
The hemogram showed hypochromic microcytic anemia with hemoglobin of 9.9 g/dl, 7,000 leukocytes/μL (85.60% neutrophils) and 190,000 platelets/μL.
Biochemistry highlighted: GOT 65 U/L, GPT 30 U/L, alkaline phosphatase 239 U/L, GGT 341 U/L, calcium 7.5 mg/dl and sodium 125 mmol/L.
Renal function, bilirubin, lipase and urine analysis were normal.
Hemocultives in aerobic and anaerobic environment obtained from the Emergency Department, during the febrile peak, were negative.
Serology for syphilis and Toxoplasma gondii were negative.
Detection of Clostridium difficile toxin and stools was requested, as well as coprocultive, all of them negative.
Because of the symptoms presented, computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen, upper digestive endoscopy and loop ileoscopies were performed.
Abdominal CT showed the presence of scarce amount of hepatomegaly, multiple lesions hypodense in the non-bladder, compatible with microabscesses, specific abdominal lymphadenopathy intra and retroperitoneal, segmental ascites
Gastroscopy revealed a nonspecific thickening of the gastric body consistent with chronic gastritis.
The colon was explored as a whole in good conditions of preparation, without appreciating alterations, except for internal hemorrhoids and anal fissure.
A diagnostic test was performed.
Differential diagnosis For the differential diagnosis we must take into account those processes that course with hepatomegaly, lesions compatible with splenic microabscesses as well as multiple intra-abdominal and retroperitoneal lymphadenopathies.
Sarcoidosis can cause sterile splenic microabscesses, but it is not characteristic in a state of cellular immunosuppression such as that of our patient.
As for▁neoplasms, Kaposi's sarcoma can present lymphadenopathies and lesions that resemble microabscesses, but it would be unlikely in our case given the absence of typical skin lesions.
On the other hand, it should also be taken into account that we are facing metastatic lesions, but the radiological behavior is different, and the absence of liver lesions and of a tumor could be a negative microbiological diagnosis, as well as the probable presence of a primary lymphoma C.
Microorganisms that can produce splenic microabscesses are: Histoplasma capsulatum Leishmania Leishmania Candida Candida Candida Candida Candida Candida Candida gella bacter jejunplasmadi Mycobacterium tuberculosis • endemic coccyum infections
Moreover, when these infections produce microabscesses, they do so in the context of disseminated infection with pulmonary involvement.
Aspergillus spp is also a cause of splenic microabscesses, but it usually occurs in patients with CD4 counts below 100 cells/μL, who also present neutropenia or steroid treatment, which is not the case in our study.
Co-infection with hepatosplenic candidiasis would be ruled out because it is typical of patients with neutropenia who recover.
Extrapulmonary infections caused by cystis in our jiroveci are also a cause of splenic abscesses in liver and kidneys; however, they are mainly described in the context of severe lung disease caused by this microorganism or in patients with aerosolized pentamidine.
On the other hand, splenic microabscesses are described in the context of bacteremia due to Salmonella spp., Shigella spp., and Campylobacter spp., but the negative hemobcultives are very unlikely.
Bacillear angiomatosis, another cause of splenic abscesses, is far from our diagnosis because it is characterized by typical skin lesions and CD4 counts lower than those shown by our patient.
Extracerebral toxoplasmosis has been described as a rare cause of splenic abscesses.
Generally, the most affected organs in case of extracerebral toxoplasmosis are the heart and lungs.
It requires a high degree of immunosuppression, with less than 100 CD4/μL.
The negative serology for T. gondii presented by our patient would rule out this entity.
Disseminated leishmaniasis has been documented as a cause of splanchnic nodular lesions.
However, its typical presentation is pancit, absent in our case.
Finally, mycobacteria, especially Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium avium complex, can cause liver and splenic abscesses with negative bacterial cultures.
Infection with M. avium would be less likely because it usually appears in patients with CD4 counts below 50 cells/μL. On the contrary, the entire clinical picture fever, adenopathies, tuberculosis infection with microlithiasis is considered.
Disseminated tuberculosis was suspected in the patient, and urine samples for sputum smear microscopy and culture for disseminated tuberculosis were obtained. Empirical treatment with isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide was initiated.
During the first few days of treatment fever disappeared and the patient experienced improvement in his general condition.
However, on the fourth day, fever and asthenia reappeared, and she developed jaundiced dye on skin and mucous membranes.
The increase was up to 6.45 mg/dL, with an increase also in alkaline phosphatase and GGT, without an increase in cytolysis enzymes.
The suspected toxicity due to rifampicin was suspended.
After this, the patient continued with persistent fever of 38oC, but well tolerated, and with an analytical improvement in liver function parameters, with progressive decrease in stasis parameters.
Several days later, after normalizing the analytical parameters, it was decided to restart the tuberculous treatment, progressively introducing the drugs, without using rifampicin.
Isoniazid treatment was initiated well, so that one week later pyrazinamide, etomidate and streptomycin were added.
Despite treatment, the patient continued in a similar situation, with daily fever and night sweats, although well tolerated, without any symptoms by devices.
Consequently, the patient was discharged for follow-up visits.
After discharge, the growth of M. tuberculosis was observed in the mycobacterial cultures, resistant only to streptomycin, which was withdrawn from treatment.
The patient was treated with tuberculous meningitis for one year with complete resolution.
Final diagnosis Disseminated tuberculosis in HIV-infected patient with formation of splenic microabscesses.
