A 32-year-old man presented with a 7-day history of edematous, pruritic, erythematous and hot plaque in his right thigh in February 2009.
The clinical picture began at the end of January with the appearance of a first hot erythematous plaque accompanied by edema at the abdominal wall that disappeared after 3-4 days; a week presented another lesion of similar evolution in inguinal region.
▁Migratric plaques appeared in the right thigh and ankle.
She was admitted to a private clinic and was treated with ceftriaxone plus clindamycin due to clinical manifestations compatible with colitis. She was discharged from hospital due to a favorable evolution.
Abdominal ultrasound and venous Doppler ultrasound of the lower limbs were normal during hospitalization.
Symptoms reappeared in our department.
He had no significant personal history except that he had traveled to several cities on the Caribbean coast of Colombia between January 1 and 20 that year and consumed repeatedly raw fish ("cebiche").
Biopsy of the lesion was performed at the level of the right thigh and the following studies were performed: HIV serology that was non-reactive, white blood cell count: 6400/mm3 (eosinophiles 11% normal),▁erythrosediment
Soft tissue ultrasound: in the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the face-externe depth of the root of the right thigh, nodular formation polycyclic acid aponeurotic layer 56 × 40 × 16 mm without a layer of layer
With a clinical diagnosis compatible with gnathostomiasis, the patient was treated with ivermectin (200 μg/kg/d for 2 days) with good evolution.
The pathology report of the biopsy obtained from a cutaneous lesion was "pancreatic eosinophilic".
One month later, the patient presented recurrence and received a second treatment scheme with the same drug.
In the periodic controls until April 2012, there were no relapses.
The genus Gnasthostoma belongs to the order Spirurida and is characterized by needing one or more intermediate hosts in its life cycle.
The genus has 13 species, but only four of them have been related to human cases: G. Australiaum spinum domestica, Japan, which is generally found in domestic cats and domestic cats and dogs in India, China, Japan and other wild swine.
