Personal history A 43-year-old Spanish male, with a history of right spontaneous pneumothorax and chronic hepatitis C, cured with interferon.
She reported having made multiple interconntal trips without health problems: Morocco, Turkey (2005), Patagonia, Gambia (Gambia (vaccinated against the recent outbreak, Algae, 2006 river), without prophylaxis against cholera (Na).
Here, he performed antimalarial prophylaxis, but he had received prophylaxis with non-potable water consumption and baths in the Niger River and in the Dogón country cataracts in the middle of the city.
Current disease The patient had intermittent high fever (up to 39oC) of twelve days of evolution without focality, starting in the last days of the journey and accompanied by chills, tiritones, arthromyalgias and migraines.
Her partner had started with a similar picture 48 hours before, of lower intensity, and both continued to have chemoprophylaxis with the pitting, with good apparent tolerance.
In the directed interview, they reported having had generalized pruritus for several hours after bathing in cataracts in the Dogón Country, without self-limiting skin lesions.
Physical manifestations The patient was afflicted with a high blood pressure of 70 mmHg, weight 68 kg (usual), scarring of the right skin and did not present cutaneous lesions 110 hepatomegaly or other relevant findings
▁Complementary leukocytes were present in the blood count 7,200 leukocytes/μL (600▁eosinophils, 8%); hemoglobin 14.4 g/dL; 179,000 platelets and coagulation studies were normal.
Biochemistry showed GPT 48 IU/L, GOT 24 IU/L, alkaline phosphatase 153 IU/L and total bilirubin 0.3 mg/dL.
The rest of parameters (glycemia, renal function, proteinogram and urine elemental) were normal.
The chest X-ray showed no abnormalities.
The sentinel node biopsy in peripheral blood (in two occasions, with feverish peak) was negative, as well as serial hemocultives, Bengala's pink, urocultive and coprocultive.
Fecal folding (three samples every other day) revealed only non-pathogenic cysts.
Urine challenge analysis (three samples on alternate days) was also negative.
Expylella septaungs negativity studies were performed, adopting Schizophrenia exclusively antipyretic treatment (paracetamol) and performing a Brula serologic study (dengue spp, Riya virus).
Seventeen days after returning from the trip, and seven days after the first visit, the patient again consulted due to generalized urticaria within the last 24 hours and persistent fever.
The examination revealed adenopathy and hemodynamically stable, highlighting the presence of generalized urticariform lesions predominantly in the back, buttocks and flanks, without involvement of the mucosa or liver, data of bronchospasm.
At this time, an urgent blood test was performed, which showed 700▁eosinophils/μL (12.2%), IgE 24.7 IU/mL (normal values <100 IU/mL), GPT 42 IU/L and VSG 36 mg.
Diagnostic test Serology against Schistosoma spp.
positive.
Clinical judgement Acute schistosomiasis (Katayama syndrome).
Eosinophil count decreased, eosinophil count decreased, and acute schistosomiasis (Kaayama fever or syndrome), praziquantel treatment was initiated (200 mg/kg/8 hours oral) during 72 hours
The first serological sample for Schistosoma spp.
extracted during the acute phase and carried out at the National Microbiology Center of Mahonda, it was negative, and a new sample sent three months later was positive.
The rest of the serological studies were negative.
One year later, the patient is asymptomatic, without peripheral stenosis, and with serial studies (at three, six and twelve months), with negative stool and urine tests.
His travel partner, who had accompanied him on his trip to Gambia in 2006 and on his second trip to Mali (September 2007), had a mild fever of urticaria (eosinophil count 11600.3%) with a similar symptoms.
In April 2008, six months after the return, a complete seizure was performed to the terminal ileum due to rectal bleeding and increased constipation.
Macroscopically, multiple lesions were observed, with mucosal lesions located in the rectum and distal sigmoid (about 30 cm from the anal margin), very friable at the touch and with a diameter less than 2 cm, alternating ulcer.
Biopsies showed mucosal ulceration due to a granulomatous foreign body reaction caused by Schistosoma spp. eggs.
the lamina propria and epithelium.
At this time, the patient had mild leukopenia (400▁eosinophils/μL), mild iron deficiency anemia (hemoglobin 10.6 g/dL, ferritin 8 μg/L) and abnormal urine sediment (microcyturia).
In the parasitological study of urine and feces, Schistosoma haematobium eggs abundant in urine were detected, with a positive miracidium viability test.
Serology against Schistosoma was also positive.
With the diagnosis of intestinal and urinary schistosomiasis, praziquantel treatment was prescribed (a single dose of 60 mg/kg divided into two), with subsequent disappearance of stools less than 3 months of distal schistosomiasis, and urinary incontinence 20μm.
As for our patient with Katayama syndrome, and given the doubts about praziquantel activity versus non-adult forms kg of initial dosage, patient received a new cycle of treatment with a single dose (every two months).
