Anamnesis A 45-year-old woman with no relevant medical history was referred to the emergency▁dermatology department for facial lesions of three weeks duration.
The clinical picture had started with a slightly pruritic lesion in the left upper eyelid with subsequent extension to other facial areas.
The patient did not present any other lesions in other locations or other relevant symptoms.
At his health center, he had been prescribed topical corticoids when arthropod stings were suspected, and one week later, oral antiviral drugs were prescribed, under the diagnosis of possible herpes infection.
Of these treatments, only one was effective.
There was no temporal relationship with trauma, new medication or sun exposure.
There was also no similar clinical presentation in cohabitants.
The lesions interfered significantly in their personal and professional lives, as they were already working towards mental illness.
Physical examination revealed multiple erythematous plaques measuring 1-2 cm in diameter with a meliceic crust on its surface.
The lesions were limited to the facial region and some of them associated serous▁exudate.
They were not indurated or had increased sensitivity to affect.
▁Complementary cultures Samples were taken for microbiological culture.
Diagnosis Taking into account the clinical appearance of the lesions, the diagnosis was established as non-bullous appearance or not.
One week later, the diagnosis was confirmed by positive culture for Staphylococcus aureus.
Treatment Oral treatment was initiated with cloxacillin 500 mg every 6 hours for 7 days.
In addition, the application of betamethasone cream and fusidic acid in the affected areas twice a day for 7 days was recommended, and an antiseptic shower gel was applied for daily hygiene.
The patient visited the emergency room ten days after the first visit, with no active lesions, and only residual erythematous-parous macules.
The use of photoprotective agents at least twice a day was recommended to minimize the risk of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation.
