Clinical HISTORY A 64-year-old male presented with progressive dyspnea for one month.
The patient started with fever of 39oC and dry cough, so she was treated with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and oral corticosteroids for one week. The fever disappeared, but the patient continued to show a mild cough in the emergency room.
Personal history Patient mine worker.
High blood pressure and well controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Ex-smoker and moderate ex-drinker.
In 2002, she was diagnosed with Acute Myeloid Leukemia undergoing treatment with cycles of chemotherapy and an intensification treatment with autologous transplantation of hematopoietic progenitors, remaining in complete remission of hematology treatment at the outpatient clinic.
Upon admission, the patient had a baseline oxygen saturation of 87%; BP 100 mmHg; temperature 36.8oC; heart rate 70 bpm.
Awareness and oriented towards skin sensitivity, good hydration, strength, sensitivity and conserved reflexes, without meningeal signs or neurological focus.
Tachypnea and decubitus intolerance stood out, with normal jugular venous pressure.
The patient presented with right pulmonary vertex murmullo abolishment, with the presence of roncus and biphasic crepitants with right predominance.
Edemas with malleus▁excavatum in both lower extremities
Abdominal palpation evidenced a mild stenosis.
There were lymphadenopathies at the axillary level bilateral.
COMPLEMENTARY PRBCES Complete blood count: white blood cells 4.5 x 109/L, segmented 2.94 x 109/L, hemoglobin 14.3 g/dL, platelets (microscopic recovery) 180 x 109/L 1, granulocytes
Peripheral blood smear: platelet aggregates are observed.
No blasts or significant pathological findings were observed.
Biochemical profile: glucose 199 mg/dL, triglycerides 171 mg/dL, normal rest.
Basal arterial gas: pH 7.43; pO2 87.9 mmHg; pCO2 48 mmHg; HCO3 31.8 mmol/L; EB 6.6.
Chest X-ray: cavitated image in L.S.D.
Antigenaria against Legionella and Neumococus was also negative.
DIAGNOSIS OFFERENTIAL radiation therapy for pulmonary sarcoidosis, pulmonary sarcoidosis, pulmonary pneumonia should be ruled out for the presence of other diseases with similar symptoms and signs, such as tuberculosis, congestive heart failure, thromboembolism
The suspicion of infection as the cause of the disease is ruled out by bronchodilators and broad-spectrum antibiotics (i.e. intravenous ceftazidime and amikacin).
The patient was admitted with pulmonary infiltrates and/or epidermoid inferior infection, but his clinical condition worsened. The following tests were performed: thoracic CT: cavitation areas in the external region of the middle of the right upper lobe at the level.
Bronchoscopy: bronchial tree with erythema in L.S.D.
No images suggesting malignancy; Bronchial aspirate serial smears: negative.
Sputum mycobacteria culture: negative; Sputum cytology × 3 and bronchial aspirate: inflammatory smear with absence of cells suggestive of malignancy.
Serology of M. pneumoniae, C. pneumoniae, C. Burnetti and L. pneumophila was negative.
Echocardiography showed no significant findings.
After▁bronchoscopy, the patient suffered an episode of severe bronchospasm, requiring the use of high doses of systemic corticosteroids and aerosols.
After stabilization, a week later,▁bronchoscopy was repeated, showing a diffusely swollen, thickened mucosa with vascular network taking a new BAS for Microbiology and Pathological Anatomy.
After antibiotic treatment, bronchodilators and corticosteroids, the patient initially but at the week, began with increased dyspnea, until becoming cough, severe cough and diffuse bronchoconstriction with coughing, dyspnea and chest pain, and recurrent chest pain.
After 48 h of fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy, Microbiology reported the growth of a filamentosa in culture media, identified as Aspergillus niger.
treatment was initiated with high suspicion of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, due to the poor clinical evolution of the patient, microbiological and cytological findings and the risk factors presented (wide-spectrum antibiotics and prolonged systemic corticosteroid therapy at 1200 mg).
200 mg q12h iv.).
Despite the specific treatment, the patient's respiratory condition worsened, with severe bronchospasm secondary to increased systemic corticosteroid therapy at high doses and oxygen supply with 100% FiO2.
The patient develops severe platelet count (<50,000) and diarrhea syndrome secondary to treatment with voriconazole, right heart failure, acute respiratory failure and death.
