A 6-week-old boy (March 2014).
Consultation: presence of nasal mucus and cough since 3 weeks of life.
During the last week, more intense coughing at night accompanied by perioral coughing appeared on some occasion.
Afebril.
They do not report other symptoms.
A Personnel: - Controlled pregnancy with no remarkable incidences - Normal delivery at 40+6 weeks of gestational age.
Birth weight 3,060 kg.
- Exclusive breastfeeding.
- Well vaccinated (1st dose HBV).
A. Family members: - A 34 year-old Madre presents seasonal allergic asthma, has had catarrhal symptoms for 1 month, the last 2 weeks refers to predominantly nocturnal cough that is very invalidating with inhaled salt, challenge.
No other accompanying symptoms.
- A healthy 2-year-old Sister, properly vaccinated.
Currently asymptomatic.
- Allergic rhinoconjunctivitis.
- No other relevant background information.
PHYSICAL EXPLORATION: - Weight: 4,500 kg.
Temperature 36.8oC.
Sat O2 100%.
-Good general condition, good skin and mucous coloration, well hydrated with good peripheral perfusion.
Push button and palpable femoral.
Normal PCA.
No signs of respiratory distress.
A normal systematic review was performed.
"There is no coughing, sir," I replied, "during the exploration, there is a final inspiratory gall, with bleaching.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES: Rapid detection of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) antigen: negative.
The blood count showed 11800/mm3 leukocytes (neutrophils: 3,700/mm3, lymphocytes: 7,000/mm3), Hb 9.9g/dl, hematocrit 29.1%.
Platelets 505,000/mm3.
Normal rectum.
Normal biochemistry.
C-reactive protein 1.1 mg/l.
C-reactive protein for Bordetella pertussis was performed in the nasopharyngeal▁exudate, resulting positive.
Chemoprophylaxis (QP) and treatment The infant is hospitalized in the infant unit for monitoring and receives treatment with Clarithromycin 7.5 mg/kg/12 h orally for 7 days.
The patient remains hospitalized for 6 days, the first 72 hours presents apneas with hyposaturations and nasogastric tube feeding, later a favorable progressive evolution without presenting other significant incidents.
The mother was diagnosed and treated with Clarithromycin 500 mg q12h, 7 days.
We report these two confirmed cases with PCR for B. pertussis to Preventive Medicine and perform chemoprophylaxis of people living with Clarified disease.
