A 50-year-old woman diagnosed with Rheumatoid Arthritis since 2011, subclinical hypothyroidism, hypovitaminosis D and active smoking (25 cigarettes/day for 34 years).
The patient followed the following treatment since December 2013: etanercept 50 mcg (1 subcutaneous injection/week), methotrexate (10 mg oral every 12 hours on Mondays), folic acid (5 mg on Tuesdays), prednisone (5 mg daily), hydroferol
She was correctly vaccinated against pneumococcus, hepatitis B virus and influenza virus and had a negative Mantoux prior to the start of treatment with anti-TNF-α.
He came to the emergency room due to general▁malaise, myalgia and fever of up to 39oC that had started four days before.
She also developed cough with purulent sputum, dyspnea progressing to minimal exertion and diarrheal stools (2-3 times/day) without pathological products from the onset of symptoms.
During the first hours she presents▁frank hypotension refractory to proper fluid replacement, oligoanuria, fever resistant to antipyretics and hypoxemia (SpO2 90% with an FiO2 of 28%), so the ICU is consulted
On arrival, the following laboratory results were highlighted: neutrophilia of 97% without leukocytosis, renal function unchanged, mild hyponatremia (sodium 132 mEq/L) without other electrolyte disturbances, LDH 602 U/L
No coagulopathy was observed and venous gas showed pH 7.51, pO2 21 mmHg, pCO2 47 mmHg, bicarbonate 16.8 mmol/L and sat O2 88%.
Chest X-ray showed a well-defined condensation in the left upper lobe (LSI) with air bronchogram and left basal atelectasis.
Differential diagnosis Potential opportunistic infections that are relatively frequent in patients treated with drugs with anti-TNF-α activity are well reported in the literature.
The pulmonary involvement of our patient has tuberculosis one of the main causes to rule out, although fungal infections caused by Aspergillus, Histoptoco and some common entities such as Noiroveciion, Criptocog, bacterial meningitis and other entities such as
Among the viral infections frequently manifested as pneumonia in this type of patients, adenovirus, influenza (A and B) and cytomegalovirus, respiratory syncytial virus (CMV) should be considered.
Pulmonary tuberculosis is probably the respiratory infection whose association has been most studied in patients treated with anti-TNF-α.
Recent studies have shown that Spain and Portugal have substantially higher rates than other European countries in this type of patients.
Tuberculosis usually occurs shortly after the onset of anti-TNF-α, usually as a reactivation of a latent infection, while, when it appears late, it would represent (in most cases) a new active infection that progresses.
The wide range of symptoms that this can cause makes it always part of the differential diagnosis in these cases.
Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii are invasive fungal infections increasingly prevalent in immunocompromised patients.
The microorganism is normally found on the soil and in high concentrations near nests of birds, inhalation may occur.
In animal models of Cryptococcus infection, inhibition of TNF-α is associated with problems of recombination of activated T cells CD4 + and Langerhans cells in the area of infection risk, leading to increased diffusion
In addition to affecting the CNS, it can also cause respiratory infections, and can manifest asymptomatically to a respiratory distress syndrome or pneumonia.
Diagnostic tools include: investigation of cryptococcus antigen and determination of serum cryptococcal antigen. In a large number of cases, analysis of a histological sample is necessary.
In pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients the main responsible is usually Aspergillus fumigatus, and may present a wide variety of symptoms.
The classic triad includes fever, pleuritic pain and hemoptysis.
However, the absence of this triad is not uncommon, and this disease should be considered in patients with risk factors in whom chest X-ray often reveals nodules and/or pulmonary infiltrates.
The diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis is based on the isolation of the microorganism (or markers of the same as serum mannan), imaging tests and high clinical suspicion.
▁Pneumonia bycystis jirovecii has been reported in patients treated with TNF-α inhibitors, especially in patients treated with other concomitant medications.
Transmission occurs by air through person-person contact.
The diagnosis should be considered in patients with risk factors (neoplasms, especially sepsis, HIV, urticaria, pruritus, etc.).
presenting an image (common perihiliary compression, with reticular opacities or nodullary opacities or areas of perihilar predominance, and radiological consolidation was performed through compatible bronchoalveolar lavage).
Lissures are defined as mechanisms that contaminate the consumption of food and beverages or close contact with animals.
The main risk factor is undoubtedly immunosuppression.
Although bacteremia, gastrointestinal or central nervous system infections are more common, cases of pulmonary listeriosis have been reported, which generally have a severe prognosis.
The definitive diagnosis is obtained by isolation in different culture samples, depending on the clinical features.
Legionella pneumophila is usually found in wet environments.
Transmission occurs through the respiratory tract and may be the cause of pneumonia with characteristic features to the aphids and symptoms that can become very florid (e.g., fever, diarrhea, hyponatremia, renal failure, confusion, ataxia,
and which gives it a major seriousness.
▁Almost 100% of the cases had some radiological alteration on the third day.
The most common pattern is an irregular unilobular infiltrate that progresses to consolidation, pleural effusions being also common.
The diagnosis of the infection is based on clinical, culture (specificity approximately 100%, but variable sensitivity according to sputum (60%), blood (40%) or direct lung biopsy (90%)), antigenuria and visual acuity (90%).
In recent years, cases of Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection have been increasingly detected in adults, especially the elderly.
Transmission occurs via the airway and usually occurs epidemically.
The symptoms can be superimposed on those of typical pneumonia, although occasionally there is a characteristic finding, bullous myringitis, which supports the diagnosis.
The diagnostic methods include culture, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and serology with IgM and IgG (frequent).
Different issues can hinder management, such as the time taken to obtain the result of serology and the lack of full correlation that has been given in different trials when comparing results of PCR, serology and culture.
Among the influenza viruses, we highlight their potential severity and the possibility of provoking pandemics type A. Although distribution is usually seasonal, it is not uncommon to find this infection in immunosuppressed patients outside the normal range.
In these cases it is not strange to find a primary influenza pneumonia (which usually has a very serious prognosis, with a mortality rate of 80%), something much more uncommon in the general population, where the main complication is bacterial pneumonia secondary to influenza.
The diagnosis can be made by culture, serology, or rapid diagnostic tests with enzyme immunoassay (EIA), immunofluorescence, or PCR.
On the other hand, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), like influenza, is usually a cause of respiratory infections seasonally.
Transmission occurs similarly, causing an initial involvement of the bronchus that can progress to pneumonia.
There are rapid diagnostic methods based on viral PCR that detect multiple respiratory viruses simultaneously and quickly.
However, it is necessary to be cautious in the interpretation, since up to 15% of healthy people harbor some of these viruses in the respiratory tract.
▁Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is one of the main causes of infections in immunosuppressed patients, especially in colitis, either as primary or as reactivation.
Therefore, serology (presence of IgM or x4 increase of IgG) and/or detection of viral load by PCR should always be requested.
The patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit where vasoconversion started as empirical antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin 500 mg and ceftriaxone 2 grams.
Serial blood cultures, urine cultures, sputum smears (x3) and Legionella and▁Pneumococcus antigens were requested in urine.
In the first 12 hours, a positive antigenuria for Legionella (confirmed later by immunofluorescence and after thermal treatment of urine) was received, and a sputum culture was also positive for it in subsequent days.
Treatment was adjusted by keeping levofloxacin 500 mg/12 hours and sustitu plus cephalosporin at 500 mg/24 hours.
The rest of the microbiological tests requested were negative.
The evolution was torpid during the first days with repeated desaturations that forced to start high-flow nasal oxygen therapy (HFNC) without needing mechanical ventilation.
Additionally, she remained dependent on vasospasm Matner AMT>70 mmHg and presented syncope.
An echocardiogram showed mild pericardial effusion and the presence of an empyema was ruled out by chest ultrasound.
Clinically, he remained alert and conscious, with ortopnea and tachypnea.
Perceived cough with purulent sputum and cleavage of intestinal symptoms within the first 24 hours (coprocultive and negative Clostridium difficile toxins).
On the 5th day, the patient began to experience progressive improvement, with HFNO and noradrenaline being removed and the fever peaks disappeared.
Finally, the patient was discharged from our Infectious Diseases Department after 10 days of stay in the ICU (already unaccredited, maintained for 8 days), where she continued to have a favorable evolution and could proceed to her hospitalization.
Analytically, it is worth noting: favorable evolution of C Reactive Protein (at discharge 32.09 mg/l), initial procalcitonin determination of 5.2 ng/ml (at discharge 0.79 ng/ml), discrete elevation of GPT (57/ml), renal function preserved.
Other additional tests requested: serological determinations for Coxiella burnetti, Chlamydia pneumoniae and Mycoplasma, PCR for typing Leg-mated species (performed in LSI and bronchoalveolar lobules with bilateral lobules, serotype 1) and extensive loss with mild lobules
From the first moment of admission, both antiTNF-α and methotrexate were withdrawn and the prednisone dose was increased (30 mg/day), maintaining the patient without data of activity of her rheumatoid process.
At discharge, she continued on prednisone on a descending regimen (for indication of rheumatology) and completed treatment with ciprofloxacin for another 6 days.
Currently, treatment with methotrexate (5 mg oral every 12 hours on Mondays) and prednisone 5 mg/24 hours has been restarted, without the need to restart anti-TNF-α.
Final diagnosis Septic shock secondary to Legionella multilobar pneumonia in immunocompromised patient.
