A 47-year-old male, born in Bolivia, who had been employed by masonry in Argentina and Brazil.
It was three months in Spain.
His past medical history included a history of hemoptoic sputum, which he continued treatment in his country for a month with a drug that he did not remember six years ago.
The mental illness since then had a good functional capacity, since he had not stopped working all this time.
He came to the emergency room of our center for presenting progressive increase of dyspnea with ortopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea for 5-7 days that incapacitated him work.
He did not report fever or other symptoms.
On examination, a mitral diastolic murmur, a third sound and bilateral crackles from both apexes were striking.
The chest X-ray showed a pattern of bilateral interstitial edema in butterfly wings consistent with heart failure.
The echocardiogram revealed cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 10%.
The ECG showed nonspecific repolarization alterations and occasional bigeminisms, with no ventricular tachycardia at any time.
Suspicion of infectious origin of the process was requested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for Trypanosoma cruzi being positive and serology Ig G, also positive, which confirmed its chronicity.
On the other hand, the patient reported vague abdominal pain, which together with constipation were the manifestation of a megacolon that was radiologically confirmed.
With the diagnosis of chronic Chagas disease with myocardial and colonic involvement, treatment with diuretics, ACEIs, carvedilol and anticoagulation was initiated, with the patient presenting very good clinical evolution and being asymptomatic 24 hours after admission.
The megacolon was isolated with fiber and laxative diet.
Currently, the patient is waiting to be evaluated for cardiac transplantation.
One of the possible side effects listed presented fever and acute rhinopharyngitis, and another, controlled hypertension and cardiac arrhythmia due to atrial fibrillation with controlled ventricular response, the rest of the people were clinically healthy; however, two of them had received transfusion.
All were non-reactive for antibodies to T. cruzi by ELISA and IFI.
