A 20-year-old male patient presented with a psychotic disorder of several days duration. He was admitted to the hospital due to psychotic symptoms.
Family history There is no family history of psychiatric disorders personal history of sound and no history of organic matter.
Personal history and toxic habits There is no history of psychiatric symptoms during childhood or puberty.
He is the second child of a middle-high social class family with good family relationships.
It has always been devoted to the practice of sports, nature and animal care and easily to establishing interpersonal relationships.
At 14 years old, she starts eating porks with her group of friends.
At first, only at weekends, when she was 16, she consumed it every day.
At 17 and 18 years of age, their daily consumption was 4 to 5 servings a day, starting with the problems with the studies.
He had no perception of risk.
High school and university studies are beginning to increase the consumption scale to 10 to 12 per cent per day.
At this moment, the traffic of hachís begins, sells to friends and friends of friends, and thus can maintain consumption and economic cost.
During the two years that he was at the University he did not approve any subject and gradually his aspect was increasingly neglected, slowed, with a tendency to disorder and abandonment of hygiene, and he described that he was not doing anything.
In his home, the problems were increasing, because his parents could not understand this change of behavior that he denied with permanent lies, producing an ever greater distance from his family environment in relation to oppositional behaviors.
You need to go to school outside your family and city.
A few months later his consumption was 15 pounds a day and he doesn't even try to go to class anymore.
Little by little, she starts to feel weird, with feelings of strangeness towards herself, very restless and with an inconsistent speech.
He has behavioural alterations that change abruptly from mental illness to restlessness and sleeps badly.
Your friends are scared when you see your attitude and call your parents to be admitted for 15 days.
She was diagnosed with psychotic disorder due to cannabis with delirious ideas.
She was treated with antibiotics and anxiolytics, with good response to treatment.
After this admission, the patient had no awareness of the disease and denied all that had occurred.
He maintained that during his hospital stay there were people in other beds who watched him and informed his family.
He had nothing happened.
After a few months of this episode, cannabis consumption restarted.
His parents start to perceive changes in their behavior, mainly consisting of puerilism and again abandonment of personal hygiene and order of things he forgot everything and laughed without reason, his consumption increased by less than 15 months.
Locationist family problems and opposing attitude with parents go home to go to another city with friends.
Two months later, the patient had again experiences of delusional detachment and prejudice, a note that they addressed him in the television.
His friends also talk about him and it is necessary a new hospital admission for a month with antipsychotic and anxiolytic medication, giving up delusional experiences from the third week of his admission diagnosed as psychotic disorder diagnosed with cannabis.
After this second admission, she was referred to our service.
Psychopathologic features. The patient goes to a conscious and poorly oriented consultation.
Approachable and collaborating.
His attitude was adequate, though a little puerile and with some suspicality.
He was relatively aware of the disease.
His appearance was adequate, clean and clean.
He had temporal cognitive deficits (he did not remember well the time he had been admitted, nor was he able to accurately remember what happened the weeks prior to his admission, having a vague and confused idea, he cost him.
His spirit was slightly anxious.
She did not present psychotic productivity or alterations in the course or the content of thought.
There was no ideation of the authentic trait or of harm.
He had no insomnia or psychomotor restlessness.
No self or heteroaggressiveness.
No ideas of death or ideation and/or structured autolytic planning.
▁Complementary biochemical tests and blood count were normal.
In the personality study conducted (IPDE, DSM-IV), obsessive, avoidant and paranoid features were highlighted fundamentally.
Diagnostic Judgment psychotic disorder due to cannabis (CIE 10: FR5).
Psychotic disorder of cannabis with delirious ideas of onset during intoxication DSM-TR: Facilitated colitis IV and Treatment The patient was followed-up and continued with pharmacological treatment (annclopristone 200 mg) at hospital discharge.
Individual psychotherapy was initiated.
Little by little the patient achieved a slow improvement.
Perform total memory that incapacitates THC, significantly increasing interpersonal and intrafamilial communication, still achieving many difficulties to carry out future projects and slowly recover the relationship with their family, especially with their parents, but being activities
He could not study, nor▁memorize anything, nor even concentrate for a short period of time, but he accepted training courses and frequent leave at home for a few months.
He re-examined his relations with non-consumer friends who had lost years ago, and began a relationship with a girl.
In this respect, the acceptance of her group of friends and the partner gave her confidence and allowed her to work with him a change in her previous lifestyle and an attitude of maturity towards her life and future.
Nine months after this second episode, the patient was more stable and enrolled in specific animal care courses he had always received.
His cognitive level had improved notably and maintained a very positive attitude with his family and environment.
She had no psychotic symptoms, delusional ideation, or had been taking medication for three months.
Urine toxic tests that have continued to be performed by the family to date are still negative.
