Anamnesis A 73-year-old male with a history of stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and undergoing transurethral resection of the prostate 12 years ago.
The patient was referred from another center with a diagnosis of left orchitis 24 hours after presenting acute pain and no justified cause, due to poor response to treatment and worsening of the general condition with signs of necrosis in the skin and the surroundings.
Physical Pathologic Conscious, Oriented, Glasgow 15.
Heart rate 80 bpm, blood pressure 120/70 mmHg, SO2 94%.
Pulmonary and cardiac involvement was unremarkable.
Abdomen: globulose, blando, depressible, non-painful, without signs of peritoneal irritation.
External genitalia: urethral catheter carrier, enlarged scrotum and extending to bilateral inguinal and suprapú level erythematous medium cream, non-painful to subcutaneouspitation a with a necrotic plaque.
Additional tests • Analytical (at admission): hemoglobin 1 g/dl, hematocrit 34, leukocytes 13.9 thousand/mm3, neutrophils 95%.
Platelets 78 thousand/mm3, creatinine 4.2 mg/dl, basal glucose 185 mg/dl.
Arterial hypertension: pH 7.24, pO2 78 mmHg, pCO2 42 mmHg, HCO3 17 mmol/l.
Diagnosis With the diagnosis of sepsis secondary to possible necrotizing fasciitis, emergency surgery is proposed.
Treatment Antibiotic treatment was established with linezolid, meropenem and intravenous metronidazole.
During the intervention, the suprapical inguinal cystotomy is substituted for the left bladder cystotomy. A wide debridement is performed with excision of the totality of the necrotic tissue that affects the subcutaneous tissue above the superficial orifice of Buck and around the body
A rectal examination was performed, showing at times 12 and distally to the sphincter a foreign body with a sharp clavicle which, when extracted, has an approximate length of 3-4 cm and a hard consistency Anatomy that is entangled.
Two Penrose-type drains are left due to the counterincision, one in the most declining perineal region and another in the left inguinal region.
Tissue samples are sent for aerobic and anaerobic microorganisms.
After the completion of the intervention, the family comments on the finding of the foreign body, who gives notice of the patient's customs of making depositions in the wrongdoing field using stones and bushes.
The patient remains hospitalized during the hospitalization period, with a tendency to hypotension and tachyarrhythmia, so he goes to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
After 5 days in the ICU, the patient was transferred to the Urology Department with good general condition, aphasia, hemodynamically stable and good appearance of the surgical wound.
Bacteriology: positive for Escherichia coli and Streptococcus viridans.
Antibiotic therapy was adjusted according to the antibiogram.
On the tenth day after surgery, the wound was reviewed under general anesthesia and the edges were approximated.
After receiving rehabilitation treatment and checking for spontaneous voiding after removal of bladder size, the patient was discharged 23 days after admission.
Pathological anatomy: piece 3.2 cm long with the shape of the spine corresponding to the histological structure of bone.
