A 71-year-old male with a history of gotrosis and a knee replacement.
He lives in a rural area, a farmer, and reports having been trying extermina pest of mice on his farm.
She consulted due to a 4-day history of fever, colloric urine and muscle pain in the posterior region of both thighs and pantolaryngologists associated with muscle weakness and difficulty walking.
On arrival, TA: 141/78 FC: 105 T: identical C Sat: 98%.
A auscultation revealed jaundice, eupneic heart auscultation: tachycardia no murmurs.
Hepatomegaly 2; neurological finger strength 4/5 in the lower limbs with abolished osteotendinous reflexes.
Having established clinical and epidemiological background data such as high suspicion of leptospirosis, serology is requested, and antibiotic treatment with DOXO is initiated and the patient is hospitalized.
During his rapid stay deterioration of his condition, in less than 12 hours he begins with oliguria, hypotension, delirium, episodes of non-disordered breathing with hemoptysis that required OTI-MV and admission to the ICU.
Hemodynamic support was prescribed during these hours, and ceftriaxone IV was administered.
After 20 days in the ICU where the microbiological diagnosis of leptospira was confirmed, good clinical evolution was transferred to the internal medicine service and the patient was discharged 26 days after admission to the emergency department.
Leptospirosis is a zoonosis of worldwide distribution that is transmitted to humans by direct contact with the urine of wild mammals (especially rats, mice, but also dogs, cats, sheep and cattle).
Although it is more frequent in countries of tropical and subtropical areas in our country there are several traditionally endemic areas, rice zones such as the Valencian Community or the Ebro Delta.
In Gran Canaria it is rare, in our hospital from 2000 to 2010, twenty-two patients were admitted, the mean age was 61.41 years, 6 had acute renal failure in rural areas, 81.8% were admitted to hospital.
Five patients died.
The causes of death are usually renal failure, cardiopulmonary failure and bleeding.
Recovery is usually complete, although sequelae may occur ranging from chronic fatigue to other neuropsychiatric symptoms such as headache, paresthesia, mood changes and depression.
Treatment should be initiated as soon as the diagnosis is established. In less severe cases, oral antibiotics, such as ampicillin, amoxicillin, or amoxicillin and/or amoxicillin, can be used soon as possible.
In more severe cases third generation cephalosporins and quinolones are useful.
Support measures and treatment of electrolyte, hemodynamic, renal and pulmonary alterations are as important as antibiotics.
