We report the case of a 33-year-old woman, smoker of 2-3 cigarettes/day, mother of a healthy child, without other medical or epidemiological backgrounds of interest, who attended her health center with fever consistent time of 24 hours.
She was discharged with paracetamol, but returned a few hours later due to uncontrollable vomiting, so she was referred to her regional hospital with suspected acute meningoencephalitis.
Hemocultives were extracted, intravenous ceftriaxone 2 g was administered and sent to our reference hospital for neurological evaluation.
On arrival there was hypotension of 85/55 mmHg refractory to fluid therapy with crystalloids, as well as high heart rate of 105 beats per minute, together with an increase in urine output figures of lactate (up to 2.5 mmol/l) and Glasgow less signs.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation and abdominal examination did not reveal any pathological findings.
Cranial computed tomography (CT) was normal, and lumbar puncture was performed, obtaining cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with negative protein binding (30.1 mg / mm3, 3 leukocytes / mm3, glucose 65 mg / dl (peripheral glycemia 77 mg / mm).
CSF polymerase chain reaction for herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 was negative.
Blood tests showed an elevation of C-reactive protein (CRP) of 285 mg/l and procalcitonin of 10 ng/ml, the rest of the biochemical tests, blood count and coagulation being normal.
The patient continued with intensive crystalloid infusion, and empirical antibiotic therapy was maintained prior to the performance of CT (meropenem 2 g every 8 hours and linezolid 600 mg every 12 hours intravenously).
In the first 24 hours the patient began to improve until she fully recovered her neurological condition, remaining oriented, hemodynamically stable and recovering the diuretic rhythm.
Progressive disappearance of petechial lesions was also observed.
Neisseria meningitidis was isolated in the hemocultives obtained in the comarcal hospital, so a directed interrogation was carried out to the relatives, referring to three episodes in the family of ENT meningitis with a satisfactory sibling.
Differential diagnosis At admission, a differential diagnosis was proposed based on family history of meningococcal infections.
Deficiency of Ceftriav when treating a possible underlying familial immunodeficiency including the following: • Common variable immunodeficiency • X-linked agammaglobulinemia • Hyper-IgM syndrome • Selected antibody deficiency
During the first days of admission, the patient developed respiratory distress associated with pleural effusion requiring conservative treatment, which improved within 48 hours bronchodilator, diuretics, corticosteroids and corticosteroids, and maintained on hemodialysis.
The possibility of a possible superimposed respiratory infection was weighed up, but causal microorganisms other than N. meningitidis were not isolated, and this bacterium was recognized as a cause of respiratory infection, so it was not modified antibiotic treatment.
During his stay in the plant, a large study was conducted that included abdominal CT ruled out lesion lobe absence of a gall, showing only the presence of moderate pleural effusion as well as passive atelectasis in both.
Serology for HIV, HBV, HCV and cytomegalovirus were negative.
The interferon-gamma release test (IGRA) for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was negative.
IgA, IgM, IgG, IgD and IgE levels were within the normal range, with IgG subclasses of 24700 showing low values for IgG2 (146 mg/ dl, for a normal range).
The proteinogram showed no relevant findings.
Lymphocyte subpopulations were normal.
Properdin serum assay gave a value of 27 mg/dL (inside the normal range).
▁Complement analysis revealed 50% complement (CH50) below 10 U/ml (normal values from 31.6 to 57.6 U/ml), with C5 levels of 4.08 mg/dl 18 mg/dl (normal values from 7 to dL).
C1q levels were 218 mg/dl (normal values 10 to 25 mg/dl).
The rest of complement factors (from C2 to C9) were normal.
The patient was discharged one week later, with normalization of all analytical alterations, normalizing the acute phase reactants and disappearing both systemic and respiratory symptoms, and she could complete another course of antibiotic treatment to oral amoxicillin 7 days (1.000 mg).
It was cited in outpatient follow-up visits, and was programmed an immunization program with meningococcal vaccines A, C and W; meningococcal B; Haemophilus influenzae pneumococcal serotype 23; influenzae type B;
Six months later, the patient remained stable without new infectious episodes.
The rest of their first-degree relatives were cited for complement levels, and the same vaccination program was applied to them.
Final diagnosis Septic shock secondary to meningeal infection.
Possible "decapitated" central nervous system infection after 24 hours of antibiotic treatment.
Primary immunodeficiency due to congenital complement factor 5 deficiency, added to possible IgG2 deficiency.
