A 33-year-old, single, optically graduated male living with his mother.
He has developed several studies, having been in the same job for at least three years, and currently has been working in a store for a month.
She has no personal history of interest except trauma problems such as two sprains.
His father was diabetic and died from a myocardial infarction.
Your mother lives healthy.
He has three brothers in which excessive drug use▁predominates, one of them is an important consumer of cannabis and another of alcohol and cocaine.
Your sister does not consume any toxics.
In their previous personality, introversion, insecurity, difficulty in establishing friendships but desire to establish them and long-lasting and close interpersonal relationships▁predominate.
She doesn't have a couple relationship.
The patient says that he always talks about something in front of his attitudes or strangers, although he had no trouble talking to his friends.
In the face of unknown people, they feel distressed and start▁stuttering or notice intense sweating.
He does not refer fear to other different social situations.
She had several work activities.
Usually, in two types of works, there is often face to face with colleagues who only have contact with colleagues and who do not value them as anxiogenic and sometimes as a dependent person in optical stores where they have difficulties working.
The first time she worked as a dependent in an optical store she was 28 years old.
This situation experienced intense anguish.
He had a lot of customers and had▁stuttering in their presence.
This led him to make an autolytic attempt and then leave that job.
Two years later he returned to work in another optical store, also as a dependent one, but with less pressure from clients, despite this he noticed intense sweating and also left this work for the anguish caused.
Mental health treatment with▁benzodiazepines is mandatory.
Later he was working in a depot for three years without work difficulties, he even considered that the work performed it adequately and expected an increase but unexpectedly was fired without being attributable to labor conflicts or low performance.
After receiving treatment, the patient presented a depressive episode that improved in a few months.
She has been working in another store and for two months she has been taking escitalop because of her anxiety symptoms, which she now considers to be little limiting.
Regarding the toxicological history, she began to consume hachís at 17 years of age, on weekends with her friends.
For about 8 years, she has consumed alcohol daily, changing marijuana consumption, initially around 2 cigarettes a day, because she is at home for late smoking.
He comments that at that time he had already consumed something to prepare himself for the anxiety produced by his first job.
The time of consumption was 28 years, avoiding enough cigarettes, but not working as a dependent person, where they smoked about 5-6 cigarettes a day, starting smoking in the morning, observing an improvement in the anguish described.
About 2-3 years ago, treatment began in a drug treatment center with the aim of reducing the dose consumed and having some period of abstinence, describing a mild withdrawal with insomnia and desire to consume.
Nowadays, daily consumption persists but in a smaller quantity.
He says that for years he tried cocaine, LSD, and ecstasy for some weekends when he went out with friends but they were drugs he didn't like.
He also recognizes moderate alcohol consumption on weekends when he leaves with friends.
She does not refer to legal problems associated with consumption or family problems, she says that her mother has a very permissive attitude towards cannabis use.
In the psychopathological examination,▁stuttering stands out during the interview, which is intense throughout the interview, with no evidence of altered mood, sense-perceptual impairment or thought content.
The patient is very collaborating and appropriate during the examination.
