fever, lymphadenopathy and skin rash.
Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) This is a 19-year-old female patient, with no toxic habits or usual treatment.
She was treated for fungal keratitis in childhood with a history of infectious mononucleosis in puberty.
He came to the Primary Care clinic for a fever of 10 days of evolution, with morning and evening peaks.
It is accompanied by rhinorrhea, nausea, vomiting, soft stools without pathological products, aphthous ulcers, rashes, and loss of 5 kilos of weight in one month.
There is no other semiology in the anamnesis directed by devices and systems.
Non-Animals
He hasn't traveled or excursions into the field.
She did not present similar symptoms previously.
The physical examination revealed a good general condition, something asthenic, conscious, cooperative, well hydrated and perfused, cutaneous dryness non-stable, eupneic mucosa oriented.
TA: 112/70 mmHg.
FC: 90 spm.
Ta 36.3oC.
In the oral cavity there are two subcentimetric oral aphthae in the lower lip.
On the left cheek, there is a plaque with a certain peripheral instinct and with a meliceric crust.
On the nasal septum, scotch and back, second and third finger pulps of the left hand and second left toe non-ulcerated erythematous lesions.
Submandibular and laterocervical chain adenopathies, larger on the right side.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed a systolic murmur in the aortic and pulmonary area.
The vesicular murmur is preserved.
In the abdomen, she presents painful hepatomegaly of fingertips together with stenosis of the spleen.
Diffuse discomfort to palpation without abdominal defense.
bilateral renal failure was negative.
The lower limbs do not present edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Good capillary▁refill, with distal pulses present.
A total of 2,470 leukocytes per mm3 with 1,770 neutrophils were requested from the analytical Primary Care consultation with hemoglobin in 10.2 g/dl.
Platelets in 255,000.
SGA of 98 mm/h.
Normal general and hepatic biochemistry except LDH in 471 U/L.
Decrease in sideremia and transferrin.
Angiotensin converting enzyme of 53 U/L.
Serology for HIV, toxoplasma, leishmania, rickettsia, coxiella, borrelia, leptospira, and negative.
Negative immunity study for antinuclear antibodies, anticentromere, anti-DNA, ANA and antitransglutaminase.
Fecal calprotectin of 57.6 microg/g.
In the Family Medicine consultation we performed cervical ultrasound and conserved lymphadenopathy, laterocervical and submandibular, fundamentally hypoechogenic with tendency to cluster, affecting bilaterally the jugulocaric chains.
The largest measure is 2.5 cm long by 1.1 cm anteroposterior diameter.
Clinical abdominal ultrasound shows liver and spleen with size in the upper limit of normal, but considering the height and size of the patient could be considered increased in size.
Clinical echocardioscopy showed hyperdynamic left ventricle (LV), with no gross valvular alterations identified.
LV and right ventricular size and function were normal.
Absence of pericardial effusion.
Given the progression of the clinical picture and the persistence of symptoms, the referral to Internal Medicine for further study was agreed with the patient.
They perform negative hemocultives and urocultives.
▁thorax and abdomen with evidence of multiple small hypercapsule subcarinal▁ganglia, right paratracheal ganglions and gastroheptic ligament, some of them more aggressive but reactive periportal TAC.
A core needle biopsy guided by ultrasound of submandibular adenopathy reported as foci of infiltrate of histiocytic aspect, not necrotizing but with apoptotic images.
To rule out Gaucher's disease, a negative chitosidase activity in plasma was requested (47.2 nmoles/ml/hour; normal range: 4 to 76 nmoles/ml/hour).
Family and community approach Female, 19 years old.
University student.
She lives with her parents.
Optimal family style.
Good family support.
Middle-high socio-cultural level.
Clinical judgement (problem finding, differential diagnosis) Polyadenopathic syndrome compatible with Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease.
Differential diagnosis with▁lymphoproliferative process, leishmaniasis, Gaucher disease.
Plan of action and favorable evolution was established, with progressive reduction of the size of the lymph nodes and disappearance of the fever after oral treatment for 2 weeks with non-steroid treatment, asymptomatic after one year.
