Consultation time Syncope Episodes.
Individual approach Anamnesis: Family history: no history of interest Personal history: NAMC.
No CVRF.
Meningitis 18 years old.
Thalassemia minor.
IQ: Ablative surgery.
A 51-year-old man presented to the Primary Care Centre for two episodes of loss of consciousness.
The first one is preceded by sweating and dizziness without object rotation.
Do not remember your duration.
Not loss of sphincter control or abnormal movements but vomiting.
No headache or signs of subsequent confusion although the wife reported facial flushing.
She came to the hospital emergency department and was discharged with a diagnosis of vasovagal syncope.
Two months later, the same condition occurred, preceded by general▁malaise, abdominal pain and diarrhea.
On this second occasion, the patient is evaluated by his primary care physician who suspects a probable anaphylaxis and sends allergy consultations for evaluation.
The patient only relates both pictures with void of dust in the patient.
She had previously suffered from lip swelling and oral itching when she eats shellfish and edema if she accompanies this intake with exercise.
Location: Good general condition.
Aware and oriented.
Location: normal colored, eupneic at rest.
Picnic-type situation.
TA: 135/110.
Temperature in consultation: 36.4o.
HR: 74 bpm.
FR: 14rpm.
Sat 02: 98%.
Cardiorespiratory arrest: rhythmic and strong without murmurs or extracts.
The vesicular murmur was preserved with good bilateral air intake.
Abdomen: Papular lesions with disseminated brown pigmentation predominantly in the abdomen.
Pathographism: negative.
Hepatomegaly of the 2 layers of finger
Elevated liver enzymes (ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase)
Neurological involvement was normal, not focal.
Cranial preserved pairs.
Cholesterols and normoreactive.
No loss of strength or tenderness in extremities
No dysciadochokinesia.
Dysmetry in the right hand.
▁Complementary tests: EKG: Sinus rhythm at 74 bpm.
Short PR.
narrow QRS.
No data on repolarization alterations were found.
Chest X-ray was normal.
Cranial Tc: no abnormalities.
Inhalation powder: Positivo a alternaria, aspergillus, gum epithelium, mite D. Pteronyssinus, grass epithelium and
- Pathways of animal origin: Positive for shrimp.
- Vegetable origin: negative.
- blood count, biochemistry, ESR, CRP, TSH.
Proteinogram, antithyroid antibodies, serum immunoglobulins, serology and complement without alterations.
- Tryptase, total normal IgE specific to latex, gamba and negative anisakis.
- Controlled exposure test with lidocaine without immediate or delayed hypersensitivity.
- Normal abdominal ct.
-Bone marrow aspirate (cytology): Well-presented hematopoiesis.
Although there are no major criteria for mastocytosis, the rate of mast cells is higher than normal, mostly pathological.
-Bone marrow biopsy: Mast cell hyperplasia.
Absence of mast cell accumulations diagnostic of systemic mastocytosis.
Bone marrow remnant without histological changes.
- Skin biopsy: the c-kit IHC technique has been positive in mast cells, confirming its increased number.
Family and community approach The patient is dedicated to computer engineering and lives with his wife and daughter in the same residence.
Non-animals.
It is a nuclear family with close relatives.
Family Apgar score was 10 (normal functioning family).
According to the WHO family classification model, it would be placed in stage III or full extension (birth of all children without disabilities).
Clinical judgement Mild or indolent systemic mastocytosis.
Anaphylaxis.
She alerted to shellfish.
Urticaria pigmentosa
treatment with high levels of methotrexate was continued until the symptoms and the lesions were elevated after systemic treatment and topical treatment with disodium cromoglycate but two years later the diagnosis was made by bone densitometry.
The patient is under close monitoring by the allergology department (every 4-5 months) and by the digestive department due to the dyspepsia caused by gastric hypersecretion of this pathology.
Currently with good evolution and good mood.
