A 57-year-old immunocompetent woman presented to the emergency department with bilateral eye discomfort and visual disturbance.
Visual acuity (VA) was 0.125 in the right eye (OD) and 0.2 in the left eye (LE).
In the Biomycosis, a fold with endothelial folds and posterior synechiae in both eyes (AO), 1+ cells of anterior chamber (AC) intensity was observed.
Ocular tension was normal in BE.
Bilateral severe colitis was observed in the eye fundus (OS), suggesting the presence of vasculitis.
Topical treatment with dexamethasone eye drops, trobramycin and atropine was initiated.
At 48 hours, vision decreased to movement of the hands in OA with more intense arthritis.
Hospital admission and treatment with topical dexamethasone (90 drops regimen), methylprednisolone (40 mg every 12 h) and intravenous ciprofloxacin (200 mg every 12 h) were decided.
A slight improvement at 7 days in the inflammation of the anterior pole and the rupture of synechiae allowed a better view of the FO, observing vitreous turbidity and foci of chorioretinitis in the posterior pole.
Infectious serology was positive for syphilis, TPHA + (1/320) without other analytical findings.
Imaging tests, magnetic resonance imaging of the skull and orbits and chest X-ray showed no abnormalities.
In a more detailed history, the patient reported a gynecologic infection that could be compatible with syphilitic chancro 35 years ago.
Due to the possibility of neurological syphilis, a CSF puncture was performed, reporting it as normal.
After repeating serology, TPHA + (1/640) with Total Ac + for Lues, it was decided to treat with Penicillin G Benzathine 2.4 million I.U..
every week for 3 weeks, in addition to continuing with topical and general descending corticosteroids.
The clinical course was favorable, improving visual acuity to 0.1 in RE and 0.3 in LE after the first injection.
The VA continued to improve although with significant involvement of the visual field (VC) with decreased general and bilateral sensitivity.
In subsequent revisions, foci of chorioretinitis were better observed, leaving hyperfluorescent areas in early times in fluorescein acid angiography (GFA), which are maintained in later stages with fibrofluorescence and correspond to possible phases.
At 3 months VA in RE was 0.8 and unit in OI was maintained equal to 6, 12 and 24 months, with focus on seizure control and retinal detachment in VC without signs of disease activity.
