Anamnesis A 66 year old patient with the following personal history: no known allergies.
Toxic habits: ex-smoker up to 14 years ago, IPA 30, important ex-drinker for more than 20 years, currently drinker of a glass of wine per day, non-travelose blood globulin, currently non-s hunting blood hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia,
Usual treatment: fluvastatin, diacerein, enalapril + hydrochlorothiazide.
Baseline situation: IADL.
No cognitive impairment.
Autonomic walking.
Renowned, employed in a chicken farm.
Family history: no interest.
The patient is brought to the Emergency Department by a clinic objectified by the family, the same day in the morning, consisting of alteration in the emission of language, with inconsistent language and impaired understanding.
In addition, the patient presented temporal-spatial disorientation, deviation of the oral commissure to the left and gait disturbance with non-systematic latero-deviation.
The night before she had presented several vomiting and soft stools without pathological products.
No fever.
No other neurological focus in the anamnesis.
The same day he had been assessed by his primary care physician, who described in the report that the patient had ataxic gait and a deviation of the oral commissure to the left, without meningeal signs.
Awareness of neurological symptoms in emergency room, disoriented in time.
Cholesterols and normoreactive.
Horizontal Nistagmus.
No neck stiffness, no meningeal signs, gait ataxia with the presence of a fully-right position.
Positive Romberg.
Rest of the examination showed no findings.
On admission to the Neurology ward the next day: alert.
Conscious.
Obey axial orders.
Language with little fluency and isolated words.
It is easily poisoned with the previous order and with two-step orders.
Nomina 1/3.
Don't repeat.
Give orders for imitation after repeating it several times.
Disoriented in time and space.
Perseverant.
Not campimetry defects due to threat reflex.
FO: does not cooperate, continuous movement compatible with nystagmus is observed.
Cholesterols and normoreactive.
MOE: does not collaborate properly, does not aim to establish partnerships.
Left central facial paresis.
No claudication in izzie, no in Mingani.
Tactoalgesic sensitivity: removes before nociceptive stimulus.
EMR +/+++ and symmetrical.
CPR: bilateral flexor.
Impossibility to maintain sitting and standing
Coordination: no toe-nose dysmetria.
No meningeal signs.
Arterial hypertension 160/90 mmHg, heart rate 82 bpm, baseline O2 saturation 90%, eupneic, afferent.
Somatic consolidation: no skin lesions.
Head and neck: no findings.
Heart attack -- not murmurs
Pulmonary auscultation revealed conserved vesicular murmur, more intense biphasic crackles on the right base, and disseminated roncus.
Abdomen: no findings.
Extremities: postsurgical bone deviation at the left external supramaleolar level.
Normal rectum.
Investigations • Analytical: normal.
Coagulation: ATIII deficiency.
Proteinogram normal.
IgG 2211 and IgA 533.
Beta-2-microglobulin: 1559.
Tumor markers were negative.
Normal autoimmune study.
Hemoculture and uroculture: negative.
Blood serology: Brucela, HIV hepatitis B and C and negative.
CSF: hel.
Five proteins 2.8: 1 glucose: 84 lactic acid 183: alb: 102.8 adal: 4 gram.
• CSF: no microorganisms are observed.
Culture: sterile and mycobacterial.
No HSV or VZV were detected.
• Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 67 bpm, normal electrical axis, with no changes in repolarization.
• Chest X-ray - rotated, increased ICT - does not show the left costophrenic sinus, with left basal infiltrate.
• Echocardiogram: cardiac cavities of normal size.
Biventricular function was preserved.
No significant valvular heart disease.
No abnormal images.
• Complete abdominal ultrasound: normal.
• Gastroscopy: lymphangiectasia.
Partially evaluable gastric cavity by food content.
• Electroencephalogram (EEG): slowed brain activity for the patient's age.
• Urgent brain computed tomography (CT): no acute intra- or extra-axial bleeding is currently observed.
Middle line preserved.
Symmetrical grooves, cisterns, and ventricles.
No parenchymal abnormalities were assessed.
• Brain MRI: in FLAIR and T2, extensive areas of signal alteration are observed at the level of the brainstem and both are laterally located in the left subcallosus and bilaterally hypocapnic regions.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain in FLAIR axial section, which shows peripheral hyperintensity to both lenticular nuclei.
Diagnosis • Wernicke-Korsakoff encephalopathy.
• Low-flow tract respiratory infection
• Antithrombin III deficiency.
• Polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia.
Treatment Thiamine 300 mg/8 h intravenously.
In addition to intravenous thiamine treatment, initially, treatment was started with arsenic and ampicillin to cover him in the face of a probable neuroinfection by herpes virus and Lys.
After brain MRI, which was compatible with the diagnosis of Wernicke's encephalopathy, and due to the negativity of cultures and PCR of neurotropic viruses, treatment was continued with intravenous thiamine alone, followed by oral thiamine.
As a complication during hospitalization, she presented a lower respiratory tract infection that remitted after receiving treatment with antibiotics, bronchodilators and mucolytics.
A follow-up brain MRI 8 days later showed a clear radiological improvement, with persistence of only a slight increase in FLAIR signal in hippocampus.
Neurological examination at discharge revealed only one seizure, the rest of the examination being normal.
After 3 months of follow-up, the patient remains asymptomatic, with normal neurological examination.
