A 13-year-old patient is referred to the clinician for fever from 37.5°C to 38°C, cough with scarce sputum, decay, and arthralgias that begin to evolve with major cough without effusion 20,
During evolution, the patient developed erythema nodosum in the lower two thirds and anterior face of both sides, consisting of 10 to 12 of them, painful, spontaneously, and supraspinatus skin.
In addition, it was possible to verify flictenular conjunctivitis in both eyes, consisting of a set of congestive vessels of the bulbar conjunctiva, which from the external angle of the eye, reached the corneal edge.
Flictenular conjunctivitis: congestive vessels of the bulbar conjunctiva that reach the corners and end in a small flictena.
The consultation occurred 4 days after the onset of the clinical picture.
He continued with the same symptoms for 15 days, after which the convalescence began.
The patient had a prolonged evolution, with general symptoms that slowly became attenuated and lasted approximately 3 months.
On the sixth day of the onset of the disease, laboratory tests showed: RG.
4.400,000 per mm3; Hb.
12 g %; Hto.
37%; GB.
8.900 per mm3; N 73%, E 2%, B 0%, L 20% and M 5%; VSG 100 mm in the first hour; C-reactive protein ++++; ASTO 2,500 U.T.
glycaemia 78 mg/100 mL; normal hepatogram; negative facial swab for Streptococcus beta-cellulose with group A (SßhGA), hemocultive, 3 negative samples for normal aerobic and anaerobic microorganisms.
The chest X-ray showed no abnormalities.
As a background of medium and epidemiological value, it can be noted that he lived in the town of San Isidro, province of Buenos Aires, along with his parents and four more sisters, of 1, 9, 12 and 15 years, respectively.
Both parents and five sisters traveled in car to the province of Tucumán to visit relatives.
As an outstanding fact, they report that they went through very dry roads in Santiago del Estero, where the vehicle was filled with dust, which inevitably aspirated.
In Tucumán, during the ten days of his stay, the five sisters played almost every day in the sheds of the breeding-house of the hull hens.
The 15-year-old sister presented with a flu-like illness, with fever of 37.5°C to 38°C, which began 20 days after her arrival at Tucumán and which began 20 days later.
The patient was treated symptomatically and the initial symptoms subsided.
During the following 20 to 30 days she had asthenia, cough and headache. The 12-year-old sister began 8 days after her arrival to Tucumán and had a flu-like illness with a fever of 37.5°C to 38 days.
The 9-year-old girl, 20 days after her arrival to Tucumán, started with fever, which lasted one week.
He had less general repercussion than the other sisters and also healed spontaneously. Unfortunately, the youngest, 1 year old, had fever from 38°C to 39°C, who began with general symptoms 8 days later.
The chest X-rays of the four sisters showed no abnormalities. These four sisters were seen by different clinicians and otorhinolaryngologists with diagnoses of pharyngitis or respiratory virosis and no medical relationship was described.
Only the first of the patients presented developed a clinical picture with important repercussion on the general state, unlike the other sisters, which originated the specialized consultation. Due to the possibility of fungal etiology, specifically the "Maisy Infecii Doctor"
Blood samples were taken from the five sisters to perform serological tests with Histoplasma capsulatum var antigens.
capsulatum and Coccidiodes posadasii.
The antigens used were metabolic reagents of the mycelial form, non purpura obtained by ̄ development in both liquid media, according to a technique already published.
Immunodiffusion reactions on agar gel and complement fixation were performed following the procedures recommended in previous studies.
Skin tests were performed according to the Mantoux technique, with histoplasmin and metabolic ¶din resulting from mycelial forms of both mycelia developed in the asparagine-salt medium.
The antigens were provided by the Centre for Mistakes of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Buenos Aires; the histoplasmin used was L63 and identified as L 73.
Erythema was isolated in 1/100 patient, except for the patient with nodosum who was injected with the dilution 1 antigens.
Histoplasmin skin tests were positive in all five patients, with infiltrates ranging from 10 mm to 22 mm.
The 13-year-old female patient with erythema nodosum, in whom histoplasmin 1 dilution was used, presented 20 mm of induration.
Cutaneous tests with▁parodydin were negative in all five sisters.
Serological tests of agar gel immunodiffusion and histoplasmin complement fixation showed positive reactions in young people aged 15, 13 and 12 years old, with titers ranging from pure serum to diluid fixation 1/832.
Girls aged 9 and 1 had negative serological reactions.
All serologic tests with isoniazid yielded negative results.
None of the girls received antifungal treatment, were treated symptomatically and all of them were clinically cured.
The five sisters were controlled for 2 years without anomalies being observed.
Both parents did not present signs or symptoms that justify the request for studies.
