ANTECADIE: Female patient, 74 years old.
Hypertrichosis
Rheumatic heart disease with predominance of mitral regurgitation.
Mitral valve replacement with mechanical prosthesis No.
31 in 1976.
Gentamicin implant posteriorly due to symptomatic slow atrial fibrillation in 1996 with last switch of generator in 2015 presenting at that time bag hematoma with spontaneous drainage with negative hemocultives and normal intravenous TTE, which was successfully treated
Chronic treatment: acenocoumarol according to scheme, olmesartan/ hydrochlorothiazide 20/12.5 mg/24 hours, in see ribavirin 120 mg c/24 hours, zolpidem 10 mg c/24 hours, for
BACKGROUND: The patient was admitted to the emergency room on March 10, 2016 due to general▁malaise, headache, arthromyalgia, anorexia, fever and weight loss of 2 weeks of evolution.
The initial suspicion of pneumonia in the left upper lobe led to empirical antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin escalating to imipenem due to persistence of febrile syndrome and general deterioration, and Streptococcus gocultifii growth.
PHYSICAL EXPLORATION: Temperature 36oC.
Heart rate was 97% 126/63 mmHg, heart rate was 66 bpm, oxygen saturation was reached with nasal gaphages at 2 l/min, RR was 16 bpm.
Aware, oriented and collaborating.
Good general condition.
Eupneic at rest.
Good distal perfusion, adequate fluid status.
Cardiac arrest: No cardiac murmurs.
Pulmonary auscultation revealed minimal crackles on the left base.
Lower extremities: no edema, no signs of deep venous thrombosis.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES ECG: ventricular rhythm stimulated by seizures at 60 bpm.
TORAX RADIOGRAPHY: condensation at the level of the left upper lobe.
ANALYTIC: Hemogram: Hb 10 g/dl.
Leukocytes 24,300 u/l (neutrophils 85%, lymphocytes 8%), platelets 201,000 u/l.
Biochemistry: glucose 135 mg/dl.
Urea 54 mg/dl.
Creatinine 1.28 mg/dl.
GFR 41 ml/min.
Sodium 132 mmol/l.
Potassium 4.4 mmol/l.
C-reactive protein 211 mg/l.
CPK 119 U/l.
Troponin T 19 ng/l (normal).
Coagulation: PT 16 s. INR 4.2.
Pathogen 905 mg/dl
Gas: pH 7.47, pO2 68 mmHg, pCO2 29 mmHg, SatO2.
TRANSTORAL ECOCARDIOGRAPHY (TTE) and TRANSESOPHAL ECOCARDIOGRAPHY (TEE): endocarditis on mitral prosthetic valve.
Mechanical prosthesis was placed in the mitral position with no signs of dysfunction.
In the posterior portion of the ring (close to the area of the orejuela) there is an anechoic cavity pulsatile aspect of its clinical context of 2.6 cm suggesting an abscess with images density greater than 1.6 cm.
Left ventricle (LV) neither dilated nor hypertrophic LVEF 58%.
Undilated right ventricle (RV), normal global▁contractility.
Both atria with moderate dilation.
Normal functioning aortic valve.
Normal tricuspid, mild insufficiency.
Pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (PASP) 50 mmHg + 15-20 mmHg (severe pulmonary hypertension).
Pericardium without effusion.
Pleural effusion was observed.
Lower cavitation with slight respiratory variation present.
Electrode detached from the right ventricle without apparent alterations.
PET-CT TÓRAX: hypermetabolism in the mitral region that suggests an infectious process, with no evidence of hypermetabolic foci in the path of the mentally ill cable.
Site capture of generator (recent replacement reserve against very low activity infection)
Postoperative changes in the mitral valve with replacement by mechanical prosthesis
Contrast-enhanced collection within 28 x 17 x 15 mm, dependent on the anterior portion of the mitral annulus, suggestive of pseudoaneurysm.
▁CLINICAL EVOLUTION Due to the persistence of febrile syndrome and positive cultures for multisensitive Streptococcus gordinii, it was decided to perform the aforementioned studies.
In TTE, an image suggestive of an abscess compatible with the diagnosis of prosthetic valve endocarditis was observed in the lateral region of the mitral annulus. This finding was corroborated by an objective collection of the pseudoaneurysm at the level of the atrial side.
An urgent surgical intervention was decided in June 2016, finding an open abscess towards the left atrium at the level of A1-P1 velums.
In addition, when examining the mechanical prosthesis, the disc movement is restricted by pannus with a qualified mitral annulus, as well as part of the atrial wall.
The abscess was closed with two points and a mitral biological prosthesis Perimount Edwards No 27 was implanted, as well as generator replacement by minimal hyperuptake observed in PET-CT.
During hospitalization, the patient evolved favorably, with antibiotic treatment de-escalation and the use of bencilpenicillin with hemocultives of control and pro-active compounds regimen.
The patient is asymptomatic and has a good evolution in hospitalization, so it is decided to be discharged and continue outpatient follow-up completing antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin for two months.
DIAGNOSIS Infectious Endotheliitis caused by multisensitive Streptococcus gordinii on mechanical mitral valve prosthesis complicated by mitral periianular abscess.
Replacement of mechanical mitral prosthesis by mitral biological prosthesis Perimount Edwards No 27.
Changing the generator due to suspected infection with a pocket-book of furniture
