Clinical HISTORY A 64-year-old male patient came to our clinic diagnosed with retinal detachment in the left eye for two days with sudden decrease in visual acuity or blurred vision.
His personal history revealed liver transplantation six months ago due to alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency and he was being treated with prednisone tablets since transplantation, currently with 5 mg/day, and mycophenolate mofetil.
He also reported insulin-dependent diabetes.
EXPLORATION During the exploration, visual acuity was found in the right eye of 20 and in the left eye of light perception and localization.
The ocular pressure in the right eye is 25 mmHg and in the left eye 12 mmHg.
Examination of the anterior segment shows precipitates or intermediate size occupying the entire endothelial surface in both eyes with the presence of walls between one and two crosses.
In the posterior segment, symmetric bilateral dense vitreous opacity is observed, with vitreitis and abundant brown pigment that hinders the visualization of the retina.
Retinal detachment of the left eye with bullous aspect is also observed, with a possible tear at 12 hours and extreme thinning of the retina.
Ultrasound mode A and B was performed and intense vitreitis, posterior vitreous detachment without the presence of retinal detachment and left eye was observed in the right eye.
DIFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS Due to the high inflammation observed both in the anterior and posterior segments, it is concluded that this is a patient with a bilateral panuveitis with a high risk of retinal necrotizing appearance in the left side.
Considering that this is a left patient with immunosuppression with mycophenolate mofetil, we are▁inclined to develop infectious uveitis with necrotizing retinal detachment that has provoked a chronic opacity
Due to the high risk of vitreoretinal proliferation, postoperative inflammation in these patients, we perform scleral surgery associated with steroid removal.
Pending that the Polyse Chain Reaction (PCR) is the best test that can detect the infectious agent, a vitreous humor sample is taken in the same surgical act.
BACKGROUND: Pars plana resection with 25 G is performed at the beginning of the intervention, using air infusion to achieve a higher concentration of vitreous humor and the sample is richer in infectious agent.
Subsequently, the infusion is changed by liquid and a posterior dense vitreous detachment opacified by the degree of chronic inflammation is observed, as well as a thinned retina at various times with both necrotic foci.
Fluid perfluorocarbon was introduced and the retina was reapplied. Laser photocoagulation was performed around necrotizing dermatitis and tear areas at 12 hours.
At the end of the intervention, bearing in mind the risks of developing vitreous hyperplasia (PVR), a 5000 c silicone oil replacement was performed.
The analysis of the vitreous sample by PCR gives us an undetectable titre for herpes simplex (HSV), herpes zoster (HZV) and toxoplasma, and the titer for cytomegalovirus 312.
Treatment with valganvir oral contraceptive 900 mg daily was initiated for four weeks.
The postoperative period is satisfactory, with total retinal reapplication.
In the left eye, the retina is fully applied with areas of bleaching caused by laser around the necrotizing colitis area and the circumferential identiation induced by the band.
After two months, silicone oil extraction was performed and the retina was kept in its anatomical position.
The optical coherence tomography showed a slight disorganization of the internal and external retina and absence of macular edema.
The final visual acuity is 20/40 in the left eye.
Surgery was decided in the contralateral eye.
A vitreous biopsy was also performed under air and extensive necrotizing zones with active borders were observed, but without retinal detachment.
Performing a complete hysterectomy and green laser photocoagulation around necrosis zones, and hyalinization of the retinal vessels is also observed.
Due to the absence of retinal detachment in this eye, a replacement was performed by a non-expansive mixture of C3F8 instead of silicone oil.
The result was negative for HSV, HZV and toxoplasma PCR, and positive for CMV at 14 843 680 c/ml.
Consequently, valganvir oral contraceptive 900 mg daily is continued.
Gas remnants are also observed in the upper part, with the disappearance of gas at 2 weeks, zone a to the necrotizing pigmentitis▁surrounded by laser, at the level of the macula cystoid macular edema and temporal matrix.
The final visual acuity is 20/30 in the right eye.
Classical CMV infection in the posterior pole with areas of necrosis/ischemia and hemorrhage has been extensively described in the literature1.
However, the chronic or subacute evolution of this patient has recently been described as chronic necrosis in partially immunocompromised patients, similar to that observed by HSV/VZ2.
The patients described in the publication of Schne et al.
had similar clinical characteristics and were in immunosuppression with mycophenolate mofetil or▁steroids.
This clinical picture represents an intermediate presentation between classic CMV meningitis and necrotizing meningitis in the HSV/HZV3 group.
