This is a 71-year-old man, without drug allergies, with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia and anxiety-depressive syndrome.
Intertrochanteric hip fracture surgery was performed using a proximal implant.
The patient was treated with metformin 850 mg, warfarin 10 mg daily,▁sympathomimetic headache 75 mg later, lormetazepam 2 mg and tranxilium 5 mg. She consulted in the emergency room for a clinical picture of incontinence
Symptoms related to other diseases were present.
Approximately one year before, a ventricular-peritoneal shunt had been successfully implanted due to normotensive hydrocephalia.
She was admitted twice due to febrile syndromes associated with neurological symptoms.
The first patient presented with a meningeal syndrome associated with fever and diarrhea lasting four days. After obtaining a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with a high cellularity (180 cells/ mm3), non-selective viral hepatitis V, 25%
Given the patient's stability and clinical improvement, the patient was discharged after 7 days with a diagnosis of meningeal syndrome of unknown etiology in the context of gastroenteritis.
In the following admission two months later and 21 days before the current consultation was evaluated again for a febrile syndrome with the same neurological clinic, where after obtaining a suspected CSF leucocyte/mm3, chronic glucose dysfunction enters 15.9 mg/dl.
Antibiotic therapy was not initiated initially awaiting cultures of CSF, hemocultive and urocultive, and finally a high urinary infection complicated by multi-sensitive Pseudomonas aeruginosa was diagnosed.
Treatment was initiated with ciprofloxacin 400 mg IV every 12 hours, returning the patient to his baseline situation, being discharged with ciprofloxacin 750 mg every 12 hours for 10 days.
Physical examination revealed a well hydrated, well perfused, alert, albeit slightly conscious cranioenic white lesions, with isochoric pupils, and no involvement of pairs.
No meningeal signs were observed and the patient was able to walk normally.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation, as well as abdomen and extremities showed no pathological changes in the examination.
The initial complementary tests showed: • Blood count: hemoglobin 16.3 g/dl, leukocytes 13,000/mm3, with predominance of neutrophils 80% and 402,000/mm3 platelets.
Normal coagulation.
Glucose 118 mg/dl, creatinine 0.5 mg/dl, sodium 128 mEq/l, potassium 4 mEq/l, C-reactive protein 5 mg/l.
• Chest X-ray without pathological findings.
• CT skull: DVP valve with right frontal input and distal end in III ventricle.
Dilatation of the ventricular system, similar to previous studies with no data on complications.
Hemocultive and uroculture were extracted.
After being evaluated by Neurosurgery, a lumbar puncture was performed obtaining a CSF of clear appearance with 1 leukocyte per field, glucose 71 mg/dl and proteins in range, sent to the laboratory of Grambiology.
The patient was admitted to the Infectious Diseases Department with a provisional diagnosis of "recurrent febrile syndrome to study associated with health care in a patient with ventriculoperitoneal shunt".
Due to suspicion of valve dysfunction of non-infectious etiology, empirical antibiotic therapy was not indicated.
difficulty in breathing • coughing up or running away from a certain point of view of the intracranial hypertension (such as a change in the level of consciousness, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, limb weakness and urinary incontinence)
1.
Ventriculoperitoneal shunt is the most common cause of valve dysfunction and should be suspected especially in cases of late presentation, i.e. beyond the first 15 days after implantation.
2.
DVP infection: It is the second most common cause and is described in approximately 8-15 % of patients.
It is usually presented early, as opposed to our case, and we must consider it in the presence of suggestive symptoms of meningitis: fever, meningism,▁rigidity of the neck, headache, nausea and vomiting, irritability and decreased level.
However, if the infection is located at the level of the distal catheter, it may present with abdominal symptoms and/or cardiogenic shock.
3.
Ventricular fibrillation can be primary or secondary to meningitis, brain abscesses, intraventricular hemorrhage or iatrogenic.
When associated with intracranial devices such as VPS, it usually occurs within the first month of the procedure and may have subtle and progressive headache, altered mental status, nausea, vomiting, fever and neurological focalization.
The clinical picture can also be masked after cycles of antibiotic therapy.
4.
Mechanical failure of the DVP: • Degradation and rupture of the system: usually occurs in the distal catheter and occurs years after it has been diagnosed.
• Disconnected ventriculoperitoneal shunt usually occurs early after implantation.
• Mixing of the proximal or distal ends of the system or malposition.
5.
CSF hyper-drainage syndromes
• Choosing the ventricular end derivation.
• Symptomatic ventricular collapse (selective syndrome).
• Subdural haematoma
• Fourth isolated ventricles are uncommon because devices that minimize this risk are already available and are usually not associated with fever.
6.
Abdominal pseudocyst formation.
Preparesis of abdominal symptoms initially and subsequently neurological may be accompanied or not of fever.
In addition to those mentioned, it would be appropriate to consider, in the case presented here, causes not related to the system dysfunction and listed below: 1.
Infections located outside the central nervous system in which case, neurological symptoms would be secondary to encephalopathy that accompanies a systemic picture.
2.
Central nervous system infections unrelated to the ventriculoperitoneal shunt system • Chronic meningitis: defined as that which lasts more than four weeks.
It is a rare entity, with an insidious course and in its origin can cause infectious, inflammatory and inflammatory causes remaining the etiology without identifying up to a third of the cases.
• Acute meningitis of endogenous origin.
Urine collection and urine collection remained negative.
A CT scan revealed a pelvic non-malignant atelectasis, which was located in the left basal segment, adjacent to the descending thoracic aorta.
A transthoracic echocardiogram ruled out data suggestive of infective endocarditis.
Finally, a PET-CT was requested to rule out an occult septic focus and a pathological uptake in the last 10 cm of the peritoneal ventricle shunt, in its intraperitoneal route, suggestive of infection.
Because these findings were consistent with Neurosurgery, we opted for complete removal of the system with CSF culture and distal catheter tip, requiring micro-organism growth research.
After this, empirical antibiotic therapy was initiated with vancomycin 1g IV/12h and meropenem 2g IV/8h, awaiting definitive results.
Propionibacterium acnes (actually Cutibacterium acnes) was isolated from the culture of the explanted material. The patient remained sensitive to the complete healing of the acne system for four weeks.
▁Definitive diagnosis Infection of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt device by Propionibacterium acnes (usually Cutibacterium acnes).
