Anamnesis A 38-year-old woman, 19 weeks pregnant, came to the emergency department after suffering two episodes of tonic-clonic generalized seizures during sleep, with an interval of 15 minutes between them.
She had no personal or family history of interest, except for gestational diabetes, generalized seizures in one of her previous pregnancies and headache.
He had not received treatment or had not undergone any study.
There was no personal history or history of recurrent miscarriages or previous vascular pathology, traumatic brain injury, central nervous system infections or other familial factors.
Physical examination revealed only mild mental illness, without other pathological findings, and after being seen by the Department of▁Obstetrics, which showed no evidence of pregnancy problems, she was admitted to the neurology unit.
Additional tests • Electrocardiogram and chest X-ray: no pathological changes of interest.
• Blood count: hemoglobin 11 mg/dl, normal rest.
• Complete blood coagulation and biochemistry including calcium and magnesium, thyroid hormones, liver profile, lipid profile: normal.
• Electroencephalogram (EEG): the patient was informed of a "left hemisphere delta that irradiated contralaterally".
• Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): multiple hyperintense lesions were observed in the white matter of both hemispheres of periventricular location, semioval centers, subcortical, all left basal ischemic nuclei, all of them ischemic origin.
• Echocardiogram: anterior leaflet of the mitral valve with mild regurgitation without other findings.
• Electromyogram: normal.
• Multimodal evoked potentials: no alterations.
• Ferric profile: iron 117 μg/ml, transferrin 317 mg/dl, transferrin saturation 26.4% and ferritin 21 μg/ml.
• Globular sedimentation rate: 14 mm.
• normal CSF immunoglobulin, anticardiolipin antibodies, lupus anticoagulant antibodies, rheumatoid factor, C3 and C4, ANCA, ACE, ANA, anti-DNA, SS-A, SS-B
• Serologies (lues, Brucella, HIV 1 and 2, Borrellia burgdorferi) and serology of neurotropic viruses: no pathological changes.
Treatment and evolution With the previously mentioned data, both clinical and analytical, the case was oriented to isolated central nervous system vasculitis (CNSV).
Angiographic study was contraindicated due to pregnancy with asymptomatic and neurological symptoms from the point of view of admission, so it was decided to maintain an expectant attitude, starting treatment with carbamazepine/8 mg oral iron 200.
At 36 weeks of gestation delivery occurred, eutocic and without incidents.
After eleven months, asymptomatic and with good seizure control, he came back to the emergency department with low reactivity, difficulty in language emission and decreased strength in the right hemibody.
The only symptom reported in the previous days was headache, with no other focality or associated symptoms.
The systemic examination was normal.
Neurological examination revealed motor aphasia, right central facial paresis, right hemiparesis (global muscle balance 4/5 on the right upper limb and right lower limb), right hemihypoesthesia, and normal extensor skin reflex on the left.
The electrocardiogram, chest X-ray and blood tests (including carbamazepine levels) were normal.
An urgent brain computed tomography was performed, which revealed an acute hypodense lesion in the left basal▁ganglia.
At that time there was no possibility of endovascular therapy and with the diagnosis of ischaemic stroke in the territory of the left middle cerebral artery, in the context of a probable AUDNS infection, treatment with high doses of subcutaneous methylpredylsylsalicylic acid (1000 mg of subcutaneous acid) was initiated with subcutaneous prophylaxis with IV 40 mg of
The patient was kept at rest and on an absolute diet, except for medication, and carbamazepine was continued at previous doses.
She was treated with corticoid bolus for 5 days, with good tolerance. Oral therapy was initiated later and treatment with calcium and limestone 0.25 μg Martes and calcium was initiated.
Anticardiolipin analytical pits (hemoglobin, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, complete biochemistry, urine sediment, proteinogram, immunoglobulins, rheumatoid factor, ANA and anti-DNA antibodies, anti-CANA, antibodies were performed.
A new cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), echocardiography (transthoracic, similar to the previous and transesophageal, which did not▁tolerate) and cerebral angiography were also requested.
Cranial MRI showed an area of acute infarction in the left basal▁ganglia and multiple periventricular and subcortical lesions similar to previous cranial MRI.
Ischemic infarction in the left basal▁ganglia
Multiple hyperintense lesions in the white matter of both hemispheres of periventricular location, semioval centers, subcortical basal gray nuclei, above all suggesting the left lenticular ischemic etiology.
Angiography showed a saciform aneurysm in the left branch that progressed to middle cranial obstruction of the left carotid siphon (inmediately infraophthalmic, with an approximate size of a sac between 5-6 mm in diameter).
Saciform aneurysm in the left carotid siphon's trajectory.
Embolized aneurysm.
Days later, the aneurysm was embolized by microcatheterization, with two tapered pins placed inside the aneurysm with satisfactory closure.
The aneurysm was completely closed and the patient went to the hospital 24 hours later.
Fifteen days after admission, a mild language disorder persisted, with mild dysarthria.
He had no facial paresis and the muscle balance was normal, with preserved sensitivity and no other associated deficits.
Ten years after the initial diagnosis, the patient has suffered sporadic episodes of seizures and epicardial status, always in the context of poor therapeutic compliance.
At the last admission, also for the same cause, the Mini-mental State Examination showed a score of 21/30, with the clock test also pathological.
The patient presented a moderate cognitive impairment mainly due to▁calculus, concentration, consolidation and praxis, with no other associated neurological focus.
She has never had systemic vasculitis sprouts.
She is currently under treatment with carbamazepine 200 mg/8 h, valproic acid 500-0-1,000, cholinesterase 20 mg and▁acetylsalicylic acid 300 mg. She continues to be followed up in outpatient neurology clinics.
Diagnosis • Epilepsy with generalized seizures and moderate cognitive impairment secondary to isolated central nervous system vasculitis (CNS).
• Ischemic stroke in the left N. lenticularis secondary to arterio-arterial embolism due to aneurysm in the left carotid siphon in its intracavernous course.
• Endovascular treatment of left carotid aneurysm.
