Anamnesis A 34-year-old man, with no known drug allergies or relevant pathological history.
He consulted in April 2017 for a skin lesion of 2 months of evolution in the inner face of left thigh and bilateral painful inguinal lymphadenopathies.
fever or other accompanying systemic symptoms
She had been treated with topical mupirocin for 10 days, prescribed by her primary care physician, without improvement of the skin lesion.
The patient had worked as a professor in Côte d'Ivoire during the previous 2 years, where several mosquitoes and insects had been stinged, and had arrived in Barcelona for 3 months.
She reported that a▁neighbor of hers in Côte d'Ivoire had a chronic pretibial ulcer of more than 4 weeks duration, which had finally healed alone, with whom she had shared towels, utensils.
He also explained that during the last 3 months since his arrival in Barcelona he had had 12 sexual contacts, one of them at risk without protection, with a partner with HIV infection.
Physical examination revealed an erythematous, indurated, warm plaque with a central superficial ulceration on the inner side of the left thigh of approximately 8 cm in diameter.
Multiple bilateral, mobile, soft inguinal lymphadenopathy with inflammatory characteristics, painful to the localization, were observed.
Blood tests for tuberculosis, a month prior to our visit had consulted a referral center for tropical infections, where a blood test had negative urine test for hepatitis A virus, a liver and kidney biochemistry had negative
A skin biopsy showed pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia of the epidermis, with foci of hyperkeratosis and a dense inflammatory infiltrate in the entire dermis, polycythocytic, consisting of abundant histioid cells.
The vessels showed a prominent endothelium.
Immunohistochemical study using the anti-Treponema antibody showed the presence of abundant spirochetes both in the dermal and▁epidermal component, with epitheliotropic and perivascular pattern.
Skin biopsy culture was negative for bacteria, mycobacteria.
We also analyze the analytic process.
Serology on this occasion showed a positivity of 1:16 for the RPR tests and TPHA treponemal tests were positive, showing seroconversion.
Diagnosis The patient was diagnosed with a luetic chancroinfection with an extragenital left thigh.
Treatment The patient was treated with a dose of intramuscular penicillin G benzathine 2,400,000 IU.
The cutaneous lesion had healed within 2 weeks, and the lymphadenopathy persisted for 4 weeks.
The RPR serology after 3 months was positive titer 1:4 and negative after 6 months.
