A 21-year-old man was admitted involuntaryly to the psychiatric hospitalization unit after presenting the first psychotic episode due to cannabis use.
According to the father, there is a progressive abandonment of activities (work, leisure) and affective relationships (friends), reaching the patient in the last 6 months, inactivity and inactivity.
Likewise, behavioral disorders have increased, with heteroagresivity at home and psychotic symptoms; delusional ideas of harm, centered on the family environment.
As well as the presence of auditory manifestations.
PATRÓNCE VALORATION/MANENTNITION OF SALUD Physical aspect careless.
No awareness of disease.
Toxic habits: Cannabis smoker since the age of 15, reaching 8 daily servings.
Intranasal cocaine abuser since 18 years of age, sporadically (consumer at weekends).
No known allergies PATRÓN NUTRICI/familiaMETABÓLICO: Weight: 60 kg Talla: 175m BMI: 19" (Normoweight the ideas that have inadequate environment) suffer.
Vomiting is occasionally caused, resulting in delusional activity (verbalized by the patient).
Lost weight in recent months
PATRÓN¥¥ /INTERCAMBIO Continent mixed PARTICIPATION.
Adequate intestinal rhythm: every 3 days
Non-use of laxatives ACTIVIDITY/ Self-care: requires supervision for bathing/hygiene even though she is able to perform tasks without help.
Loving leisure: verbalizes anhedonia.
No interest in any activity.
Mobility: slow pace SHETHER – SHETHERN Sleep times: 9 hours.
Sleep pattern, occasionally requiring hypnotic medication Other breaks: 1-hour daily nap COGNITIVO TABLETS - Patient Information Leaflet currently conserved and oriented in the three sections.
Alert.
; little collaborator Content of thought: delirious ideas of prejudice There are phenomena auditory verbalization and deliroid interpretations of prejudice poor language content, as well as feelings of anhbuled.
A slow-thinking course is aimed at delusional ideation, as well as at experiencing prejudice and social abandonment of hearing loss with emotional and behavioral repercussions (irritability, heteroagressiveness, isolation,
PATHOPPERCEPTION – AUTOCONCEPT Emotional Reactivity: apathy, abulia.
No self-lithic or death ideas.
ROL PATRON - RELATIONS coexists with your father and his brothers at home.
He's the biggest of three brothers.
Conflict in family relationships, due to the ideas of prejudice and heteroaggressiveness presented.
At the academic level, primary studies were completed.
Currently inactive labor.
Previously, different works were carried out in packet-sharing companies.
SEXUALITY PATRON - REPRODUCTION Currently without a partner Previously, risk behaviors: several sexual partners simultaneously.
Not using protection against STD.
PATRÓN AFRONTAMIENTO – TOLERANCIA AL ESTRÉS Stress-triggering factor: ideas about coping with delusions effective and hearing problems does not adopt coping strategies, due to disability
It has difficulty solving problems and few strategies to cope with stressful situations.
VALUES/CREENCES WITHOUT CHANGES
