A 43-year-old male from Senegal was admitted to the hospital's external emergency department with a temperature of up to 39oC and abdominal pain of one week duration.
Antecedents with difficulty due to the language barrier were collected.
With no personal history of interest, she has been 13 years in Europe, between Spain and Italy.
He had not recently returned to his country of origin.
Married, without risky sexual habits.
She works in the field, now stopping.
Occasional drinker of a standard drink unit (SDU).
Active smoker of 1-2 cannabis cigarettes.
The patient presented with fever of bacteriemic characteristics up to 39oC in the last 48 hours, associated with abdominal pain located in the epigastrium.
For two weeks, the patient presented with minimal cough, dyspnea on moderate exertion.
He also reported a constitutional condition of 2 months of evolution, with asthenia and quantified loss of 10 kg.
No other symptoms by organs and appliances.
Physical examination revealed a feeling of disease, significant cachexia and skin dryness.
It is hypotensive, but with conserved diuresis; 97-98 % at FiO2 0.21.
Tachypnea at 24▁rpm, without pulling.
Upon auscultation, the patient presented generalized hypophonesis, with rhythmic tone at 100 bpm.
Abdominal examination revealed non-painful hepatomegaly of 5 cm.
Good capillary▁refill, present and symmetrical pulses.
Biochemical tests performed in the emergency room have preserved renal function, electrolyte disturbances: hyponatremia 116 mg/dL, hypokalaemia 2.5 mg/dL, hypocalcaemia (total protein-corrected calcium B9.430 mg/dL).
Elevation of acute phase reactants (APR) CRP 160 mg/l.
Pancytic colitis with 3040 leukocytes/ mm3 with 1830 PMN, hemoglobin 8.1 mg/dL, 57000 platelets/mm3.
Preserved coagulation.
The X-ray showed condensation of the LSD with air bronchogram, LI in which a nodular image and interstitial cavitation pattern were observed.
An abdominal X-ray showed displacement of the intestinal loops, and an electrocadiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 100 bpm with a 60o axis.
The patient was admitted with septic shock of respiratory origin, hepatomegaly.
Imaging of the X-ray and the epidemiological history, a sputum smear AFB was requested, which was positive for mycobacteria.
Serology requested for HIV, hepatotropic virus, EBV, parvovirus, the rest of microbiological and autoimmunity studies are negative.
A more complete biochemistry was requested, highlighting ferritin 15150 ng/mL, iron 86 ug/dL, transferrin 86 mg/mL triglycerides, transferrin saturation index 79.7%, vitamin B12 > 133 pg/dL.
A coagulation disorder that was not present at admission was detected, with prothrombin activity 68.45%, INR 1.33 and fibrinogen derived 145.4 mg/dL.
Differential diagnosis In summary, this is a patient with active tuberculosis, pancitretinopathy, and hyperferritinemia of 15150 mg/dL.
Pannocyte binds to discarding a disease in the bone marrow or a peripheral process that explains cell consumption or destruction.
Among the causes are peripheral hypercholesterolemia, liver diseases, certain viruses, autoimmune processes or consumption that occurs during sepsis.
Central mechanisms would include viral processes, leukemias or myelodysplastic or myelooproliferative syndromes.
Drug or alcohol consumption, history of liver disease, poor nutrition, diseases or infections due to EBV, CMV, parvovirus B19 or HIV should be ruled out.
Hepatomegaly can occur as a result of various diseases, such as hepatitis secondary to an infectious, ischemic, toxic process such as drugs or alcohol.
It can occur due to accumulation of substances, such as hemochromatosis or tumors without malignancy, both as malignant.
It may be a consequence of changes in venous return, such as thrombosis of the suprahepatic veins or congestive heart failure.
Changes in the bile duct, as in primary biliary cirrhosis, can also lead to an increase in liver size.
Hyperferritinemia can occur in a wide variety of processes such as inflammation, sepsis, liver disease, hemochromatosis or frequent blood transfusions.
Although low ferritin levels correlate closely with iron deficiency, the same does not seem to occur when the values are high.
This is related to the role of ferritin as a mediator pro- and anti-hypertensive agent (RARFA).
Markedly high levels are rare in clinical practice.
They are very suggestive of hemophagocytic syndrome (HPS), Still's disease or antiphospholipid syndrome malignant among others.
In these syndromes, it is not only a mediator of inflammation, but also participates in the pathophysiology of the disease as an inflammatory cytokine.
In summary, and taking into account the complementary tests, autoimmune causes and viral processes are ruled out as a possible etiology.
The Coombs test should be extended to rule out a central cause of pancites, although this could be partly explained by the septic picture.
Imaging tests are needed to assess the state of hepatomegaly and rule out/confirm a hepatomegaly or a liver tumor that also justifies the clinical signs of malnutrition and cachexia of the patient.
Based on the above, hyperferritinemia could be secondary to liver disease such as hemochromatosis or be in the context of the septic picture as an acute phase reactant, although the levels are excessively high, for this reason.
Sepsis was initiated with rifampicin, isoniazid, etambucil and pyrazinamide, whose doses were adjusted to the patient's weight.
Nevertheless, the patient developed respiratory, hemodynamic and hematological failure and required admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
The diagnostic tests included Coombs and haptoglobin tests, which were negative, ruling out the underlying hematological process.
No bone marrow aspiration was performed.
The analytical evolution was: he developed a coagulopathy with a decrease in PA 52%, APTT 25 s, DD 31, worsened the following controls, but subsequently required transfusions for platelets and blood levels worsened.
Ferritin levels decreased to 2578 mg/dL.
All cultures were negative in common blood and urine cultures.
Serial smears performed remained persistently positive, with an antibiogram for M. tuberculosis sensitive to rifampicin.
The bacillus was not isolated in any other sample.
CRP increased on admission to the ICU and decreased thereafter.
It was necessary to intubate the patient due to muscle exhaustion, presenting great desadaptation to invasive ventilation.
The patient developed a piecemeal pneumothorax, so a chest tube was placed, making ventilation even more difficult.
A chest CT was requested to evaluate the extent of the lesion: "moderate right anterior hydropneumothorax with well-located drainage tube.
Possible pleurobronchial fistula in LSD.
Multicavitated LSD consolidation with bronchial dilation.
A large 85-mm cavity was found in the LSI, with no air-fluid levels or masses.
Middle lobe parenchyma, interstitial reticular lobe involvement and panalization areas.
Alveolar infiltrates in LSI and patched in LII.
No mediastinal lymphadenopathy of significant size.
In non-pelvic CT scans, homogeneous hepatomegaly only stands out" Despite support measures and tuberculous treatment administered, there is no clinical improvement.
Finally the patient died.
Final diagnosis Respiratory sepsis due to pulmonary tuberculosis and secondary HPS.
