A 34-year-old male diagnosed two months before HIV infection who at the time of diagnosis had a CD4+ lymphocyte count of 3 cells/μL and a plasma viral load (PCV) of 31,000 copies/ml.
Antiretroviral therapy (antiretroviral therapy) was initiated with efavirenz 600 mg/24 h, e.g. emtricitabine 200 mg/24 h, o.
and tenofovir 200 mg/24 h v.o., fixed-dose coformulated, etomitoxazol-trimethoprim 160/800 mg 3 times per week v.o.
One and a half month after the onset of the ingress was due to fever (38-39 oC) predominantly in the evening, with chills, sweating, asthenia, severe emaciation and▁malaise
Physical examination revealed extreme thinness (BMI: 17.6), various skin-mucosal lesions of red-vine color, slightly elevated in the palate, the left shoulder and dorsal sarcoma of the foot suggestive of the patient.
His temperature was 38.7o C and he was slightly tachypnea at rest, with oxygen saturation of 96% breathing room air.
Left paramandibular was a 6 cm thick, painless, soft consistency, small adenopathies, round and painless, in both inguinal regions as well as in the supramandibular regions
The laboratory tests revealed pancit dL (9.1 mg/dL), leukocytes 2,100 cells/μl and platelets 106,000 cells/ul), hypoproteinemia (6.1 mg/dL), alkaline C-reactive protein: 384
The CD4+ lymphocyte count was 156 CD4+ cells/μL and the PCV 456 copies/ml.
Blood cultures were negative.
The Mantoux test was negative.
Chest X-ray showed bilateral nodular infiltrate with predominantly apical right.
Computed tomography (CT scan) scan revealed multiple mediastinal, hiliar, supraclavicular and infradiaphragmatic lymph nodes with a large spleen or greater density, with abundant focal lesions.
Differential diagnosis: a patient who was deeply immunosuppressed, with generalized adenopathies and splanchnic cystic lymph nodes, recently diagnosed with malignancy, he had recently started as a differential diagnosis with inflammatory syndrome.
Sepsis was initiated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and▁steroids (prednisone at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day) for 10 days and fever was maintained with partial remission.
Corticosteroids were administered because of the clinical situation presented, despite being contraindicated due to lesions suggestive of Kaposi's sarcoma.
After the CT findings, a laparotomy was performed, including cystectomy and intraoperative liver and splenic biopsies.
Macroscopically, the mid-span was 22x16x6 centimeters, weighed 1,026 g, had a polylobulated, thickish-colored surface and serial sections showed nodular lesions 4 cm cystic.
In a sample of the spleen sent from the operating room and another sputum sample collected five days earlier, acid-fast resistant bacilli were visualized by Ziehl-Nielsen staining.
In the sputum sample, mycobacterial culture in Lowenstein medium was positive and nucleic acid amplification (PCR) for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was negative.
The anatomopathological study of the samples of the spleen and liver showed extensive areas of calcifications and diffuse granulomatous inflammation, visualizing additionally Zicystamine jirovei with necrosis staining of the acid-fast bacilliten.
Disseminated non-tuberculous mycobacterial infection was suspected in patients receiving ribavirin 300 mg once daily as Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) was the most common pathogen and the bacterium was
Days later, it was identified by nucleic acid hybridization MAC in sputum and spleen samples.
Simultaneously, treatment of hepatosplenic infection by P. jirovecii was initiated with midazolam-trimethoprim, 800/160 mg/12 hours IV.
for 21 days, followed prophylactically 160/800 mg 3 times per week.
The patient had a favorable evolution with disappearance of the fever and improvement of the general condition.
Final diagnosis: extrapulmonary (hepatome) necrosis.
Disseminated infection with Mycobacterium avium complex.
▁Reconstitution syndrome (SIRI).
