A 49-year-old male with a history of asthma, dyslipidemia, HIV-positive on antiretroviral therapy (abacavir, lamivudine, dolutegravir), treated primary syphilis and bipolar disorder.
No allergies, smoker, social drinker without consumption of other toxics.
Three weeks prior to admission, the patient presented with febricula, rectal tenesmus and sciatica.
Abdominal ultrasound and CT showed hepatomegaly suggestive of steatosis and nonobstructive nephrolithiasis.
She was not treated.
Subsequently, the patient presented fever with chills and significant deterioration of the general condition.
A transthoracic echocardiogram showed vegetation in the aortic valve.
She was referred for admission.
The physical examination was normal, with no murmurs.
Analysis with lymphocytes 1,300 /ul and elevated CRP (42 mg/l).
In xR.
Chest image was calcified in left hilium.
Normal ECG.
With the diagnostic suspicion of acute endocarditis on native aortic valve in immunocompetent HIV patient, blood cultures were performed and treatment with cloxacillin, ampicillin and gentamicin was started.
During admission, laboratory tests were performed with PCR 96.3 mg/l, ESR 55 mm and TPG 72 U/L, GGT 197 U/L, LDH 402 U/L.
; transesophageal echocardiography that confirmed the diagnosis ruling out complications; recto-anuscopy showed rectal mucosa compatible with negative lesions; anal smear with Chlamydia trachomatis was positive (hemocultivational subtype L2B negative).
Suspicion of possible endocarditis with negative hemocultives, infectious serology was performed with only positive result for Chlamydia Trahcomatis at very high titers of 1/256.
Treatment was initiated with 1 g azithromycin.
In summary, this is an immunocompetent HIV-positive patient who initially presents digestive symptoms associated with rectal tenesmus secondary to Chlamydia Trachomatis.
Subsequently, the patient progressed with systemic involvement, high fever and chills, and an echocardiogram showed possible acute aortic endocarditis.
Blood cultures were negative at 3 weeks, so we considered the differential diagnosis of endocarditis with negative blood cultures.
The study by means of infectious serology showed a very high titer for Chlamydia trachomatis with negative L2B, which could support the diagnosis of Chlamydia Tracomatis endocarditis, a very rare disease with very few cases described.
