Anamnesis A 38-year-old male, born in Peru, with no known drug allergies, toxic habits, or vascular risk factors, who came to the emergency department with a unilateral frontal-temporal headache and worsening with pulsating character.
Cognitive, visual or cognitive alterations prior to the episode were observed.
The headache was of moderate-severe intensity and had started abruptly the afternoon of the day prior to the emergency department while at rest.
The patient history included history of previous headache, dysthermic sensation or fever.
She also did not report any family history of headache or other diseases of interest.
At the time of consultation he was in paro (had worked as a waiter) and lived in Spain with his partner for more than 10 years.
Although the patient was not receiving any drug, he had taken a single 1 g paracetamol tablet orally as a symptomatic treatment, with slight improvement.
During his stay in the emergency room, pain improved slightly after intravenous dexketoprofen 25 mg.
Physical examination revealed: blood pressure 125 mmHg, heart rate 70 bpm, oxygen saturation 99%.
Afebril.
Good general appearance, well hydrated, well nourished and perfused.
No skin rashes were observed.
Carotids with strictures without audible murmurs.
Cardiac and respiratory arrest were unaltered.
The abdomen was blunt and depressible, with no masses or organomegaly.
Lower extremities without edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
neurological impairment: alert patient.
Oriented in person, time and space.
No aphasia.
No apraxias.
Speak fluent non-dysarthric.
The ocular confrontation campimetry showed no alterations.
Location in emergency room with normal fundus, papilla with clear edges.
Isochoric and normoreactivepiles to light and accommodation.
Follow-up ocular movements without restrictions or other alterations (no nystagmus is evoked).
Preservated ocular saccades.
Cranial vessels V, VIII, IX, X, XI and XII were normal.
Muscle balance 5/5 on the four limbs.
Normal muscle tone and spasm.
There were no changes in coordination in the finger-nose and heel maneuvers.
No dysdiadochokinesia.
Osteotendinous ligaments ++/++ in a generalized way.
Tactile sensitivity, algesic, vibratory and self-limiting.
Tandem gait was unaltered.
Romberg negative.
No meningeal signs.
▁Complementary tests • Urgent laboratory data: complete blood count, coagulation and biochemistry without alterations.
Urine: unchanged.
• Laboratory findings 120dl/dl: haemoglobin 16.3 g/dl, MCV 9 cholesterol 4,8 IU HC (30, 6 pg/dl, leukocytes 6,48 x 103/microl, platelets 380 1,4 x 103/microl, CRP
Coagulation in normal ranges.
Iron metabolism was unchanged.
Immunology: ANA, ANCA, anti-Ro and anti-La negative antibodies.
C3 and C4 were within normal ranges.
Rheumatoid factor and negative anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies.
Proteinogram and serum immunoglobulins were normal.
Angiotensin converting enzyme 39.4 IU (20-60).
• Tumor markers (Ca 15.3, Ca 19.9, AFP, PSA) within normal ranges.
• Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic ratio.
Free costophrenic sinuses.
No mediastinal thickening or parenchymal infiltrates were observed.
• Brain computed tomography (CT) with and without contrast: right temporal hypodensity without mass effect that respects the cerebral cortex and does not capture contrast.
• Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with and without contrast: right hemispheric pachymeningeal enhancement with focal pseudonodular thickening areas associated with temporal localization.
Alteration of the underlying right temporal cortico-subcortical signal suggestive of reactive edema.
• Angio-MRI: hypoplasia of the left transverse sinus without evidence of cerebral venous thrombosis.
• Lumbar puncture: opening pressure 12 mm H2O.
20 cells (100% lymphocytes).
Proteins 387 mg/dl, glucose 50 mg/dl (serum 70 mg/dl), ADA 3.3 (0.5-3), Tibbling index 0.62 (0.3-0.7).
No tumor cells were observed.
• PCR for tuberculosis (TBC) negative.
Cultures were negative for common bacteria.
ANTENDED ASSOCIATED NAMES (CLAEPTOCO, Blastomic, Coccidioides imitis, Histoplasma capsulatum, Paradigoides brasilensis) negative.
• Blood and urine TB culture negative.
• Serology in serum and cerebrospinal fluid negative for syphilis, Brucella, Ritsia conorii, Borrelia burgdorferi, HIV, HBV, HCV, toxoplasmosis, rubella, CMV.
PCR for HSV 1, HSV 2, Epstein- and cytoemgalovirus.
• Toco-abdominal CT: no mediastinal lymphadenopathy, pleural effusion or infiltrates in the pulmonary parenchyma are observed.
Contrast-enhanced computed tomography of the brain showed right temporal hypodensity without contrast uptake.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain in T1 sequence with gadolinium showed meningeal thickening with surrounding edema.
Diagnosis Headache secondary to idiopathic pachymeningitis.
Treatment The patient was admitted with good control of headache with ibuprofen 600 mg orally every 8 hours.
After completing the study, a control MRI was requested, which showed improvement of the lesions.
