A 28-year-old male presented to the emergency department complaining of confusion and behavioural problems.
Personal history No associated organic pathology, history of psychotic symptoms in 2003, after cannabis consumption.
Family history Around 68 years old.
A 60-year-old man with diabetes.
Brothers who currently consume cannabis and cocaine are a stimulants.
Living with the family of origin
Toxicological history The patient began consuming cannabis at 15-16 years of age in a timely manner.
After the year, consumption increases during their stay in the United States.
It relates it with stressful and problematic situations in coexistence.
Located contact with other drugs such as alcohol and ecstasy.
He returns to Spain and after 6 months requests psychiatric and psychological help, which remains to date.
The patient had a withdrawal period of up to 8 months and remained asymptomatic.
In recent years, consumption of hatchets has increased, reaching a daily consumption of 10 to 12 "sows".
Use cocaine and▁benzodiazepines punctually.
Chococaine consumption is 0.5 grams once or twice a day, for three or four months, smoked, associated with alcohol consumption, 3 or 4 glasses of beer a day.
She asks for psychiatric help saying that she couldn't do it anymore and because of family pressure.
Case description.
She lives in the middle-high family.
Work as a salesman in the family business.
At the time of admission, she says she feels sad and can't stand anymore.
She has a history of conduct disorder since adolescence, so she is diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, due to her personality trait,▁aggressiveness and irritation, and based on frequent school changes.
She was hospitalized in different psychiatric institutions for psychotic symptoms associated with cannabis use since 2003.
Neurological and antidepressant treatment was indicated together with psychological treatment, asymptomatically thereafter.
In May 2008, she was admitted for confusional symptoms and aggressive behavior, attacking a policeman with a knife.
On physical examination she presented emotional incontinence, supicacia, challenging behavior, delusions of delusional content and cenesthoesic beliefs.
Treatment with risperidone 6 mg/day, oxcarbacepine 900 mg/day and dipotassium chloracepate 45 mg/day is indicated.
It escapes several times from the institution despite being admitted to court.
It presents a self- and hetero-aggressive behavior, constantly threatening the service staff and patients, transgressing limits, norms and guidelines of the institution.
The medication is intensified by intramuscular administration of zucchini for 3 days in a row, improving the behavior and subsequently establishing measures for intrahospital safety in another institution.
Psychopathological attachment At the time of admission is confusing, refuses to cooperate and family members refer to notice it rare.
He had a bizarre behavior, took taxis without having money to pay for them, alternating this behavior with▁aggressiveness and irritation.
Authoritarian, threatening and challenging attitude.
During his admission he took personal objects from the elderly.
He reported seeing people lying in bed next to him, showing that there was a complot to hurt him.
Remaining isolated, often absent.
▁Complementary toxicological analysis with positive results for cannabis and cocaine.
A blood count showed no relevant findings.
Hepatitis serology and HIV negative.
Electroencephalogram showed no remarkable findings.
Diagnosis Cannabis-induced psychosis associated with borderline personality disorder.
