Clinical history.
Anamnesis We present the case of a 34-year-old man, born in Huelva, a professional body, with no family history of interest, without known cardiovascular risk factors or toxic fracture habits, whose only antecedent consists of a fracture.
She came to the emergency room with fever of up to 39°C, two weeks of evolution, well managed with antipyretics, and had consulted several times in primary care.
She reported that two weeks before the onset of fever she developed acute pharyngitis resolved with NSAIDs.
She denied cough, expectoration, chest pain, diarrhea, dysuria or skin lesions.
Nor has he presented weight loss, asthenia, anorexia, pruritus or night sweats.
He hasn't traveled abroad.
He has horses, dogs, and hens in a family farm on which he comes on account of occasions.
Physical examination Good general condition, conscious, oriented in person, time and space, well hydrated and perfused, eupneic at rest.
TA 120 mmHg, FC 75 bpm, sat de O2 to 99% with fiO2 of 0.21.
Afebril.
Weight: 82 kg.
There are no lymph nodes or lesions in the skin or mucous membranes.
Normal pharynx.
Heart attack with rhythmic tones, without audible murmurs.
The respiratory auscultation revealed a good breath sounds.
The abdomen is blushing, depressible, non-painful, without palpable masses or enlargement, without signs of peritoneal irritation.
The lower limbs do not present edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis, with symmetrical peripheral pulses.
A complete blood count was performed in the emergency department showing the 3 normal series.
ESR 19 mm/hour.
Normal coagulation.
Biochemistry with glucose, creatinine, urea, sodium, potassium, amylase, lipase and bilirubin were normal.
CRP 1.5 mg/dL, procalcitonin 0.4 ng/mL.
GPT 120 U/L, GOT 83 U/L.
Urine output was normal.
Two blood cultures were negative at 5 days.
Urocultiva was negative.
Chest radiography with cardiomediastinal silhouette within normal limits and pulmonary parenchyma without pathological findings.
Biochemistry was extended in the plant, highlighting normal GGT 110 U/L, alkaline phosphatase 180 U/L, normal Ig A, G and M, normal complement, ANA and negative ANCAs 71 dL HDL cholesterol
Infectious serology was requested for hepatitis A, B, C, Ace heterophiles, Ac VEB, CMV, Ac HIV, Toxoplasma,▁Pneumonia Acetate Bensia spp, Acla Coxi Rosa,
Mantoux was negative.
Pending the results of the infectious serology, an abdominal ultrasound was performed where the presence of hyperechogenic material in the vascular lumen of a segment of the right portal branch, with a slightly increased diameter do not show a significant increase in portal vein permeability.
Slight enlargement is homogeneous.
These findings suggest pileflebitis or probable right portal septic thrombosis.
Urgent abdominal CT is requested for better evaluation, showing thrombosis of the anterior branch of the right portal, without identifying the cause that justifies it, which determines an alteration of perfusion of the hepatic parenchyma; discrete hepatomegaly and discrete pancreatment.
An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and a loop ileostomy were performed, which were normal.
Differential diagnosis The initial differential diagnosis at admission was made among those causes that produce prolonged fever.
The main causes are infections,▁neoplasms, connective tissue diseases and drugs.
The latter is ruled out from the beginning, as our patient did not take any kind of medication.
Among the infections, the most common are tuberculosis and abscesses usually located in the abdomen and pelvis, osteomyelitis or subacute endocarditis, without forgetting infections caused by hepatitis virus, Eplostein virus.
Among malignancies, lymphoma (especially non-Hodgkin's lymphoma), leukaemia, renal cell carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma or liver metastases.
Among the connective tissue diseases, adult Still's disease, giant cell arteritis, polyarteritis nodosa, Takayasu arteritis, Wegener's disease and▁cryopreservation are the most frequent.
The finding of imaging tests, we propose a differential diagnosis between those causes that cause portal vein thrombosis.
Causes of extrahepatic portal thrombosis include idiopathic causes, the association with hypercoagulable states, mainly proteins C and S, post-traumatic, portal manipulation, pancreatitis, bacterial obstruction or viral invasion, as well as viral or infectious diseases
The main causes of intrahepatic portal thrombosis are liver cirrhosis and tumor invasion by primary or secondary liver tumors.
Venous stricture diagnosed with pileebitis began treatment with piperacillin-tafl a dose of 4/0.5 g every 8 hours in a manner that even persisted anticoagulant medication, with oral fever remaining 12
After 5 days, we obtained the results of the infectious serology, all of them being negative except for CMV IgG antibodies that were positive.
It was decided to suspend the antibiotic therapy and continue with enoxaparin, the fever disappearing the next day (sixth day of admission).
A new analytical was extracted one month after discharge, with positive IgG and IgM antibodies.
A sample was sent to an external laboratory to measure CMV-DNA and viremia (as in our center they are not routinely performed), being positive, with more than 100000 copies/ mL.
An active hyperagglutaibility study was performed (Finate negative Leiden, G20210A mutation of protothrombin gene, lapse anticoagulant, anticardiolipin IgG antibody deficiency, anti-combin protein-2 deficiency), anti-
A follow-up ultrasound was repeated one month later, showing no abnormalities, and anticoagulation was suspended.
Two months later, a seroconversion to CMV was observed with disappearance of IgM. Final diagnosis Therefore, the final diagnosis of our patient is portal vein thrombosis due to acute cytomegalovirus infection in immunocompetent patient.
