This is a 58-year-old male patient, without known allergies, with personal history of hypertension and chronic renal failure known for one year and dyscal hernia L5-S1.
She came to the emergency department with a low grade fever for five months of intermittent course, without symptoms by devices in directed interview except mild epigastric pain together with nausea and sporadic vomiting intestinal transit alteration.
No relevant epidemiological history except contact with a correctly vaccinated dog.
On physical examination, the patient had a low-grade fever (37.5oC) and was hemodynamically stable (TA 125/68 mmHg, HR 65 beats per minute, ambient air saturation 99%).
The patient presented mild discomfort blushing epigastric noise, the abdomen being depressible and with no signs of peritonitis or hydromegaly present.
The rest of the scans were completely anodyne, including the absence of thyroid enlargement, skin lesions and/or peripheral adenopathies.
The hemogram showed mild normocytic anemia (Hemoglobin 11 g/dl) and increased sedimentation rate globular mm/h).
Leukocyte count with differential formula, platelet count and normal coagulation times.
Biochemically, creatinine 1.23 mg/dl with urea 53.3 mg/dl and C-reactive protein 7.13 mg/dl.
The rest of laboratory parameters were not relevant (hidden blood of feces, lipid profile, liver, pancreatic bilio-pancreatic, iron, thyroidal determination immunoglobulins, proteinogram, rheumatoid factor, ACE markers).
Serial hemocultives and bacilloscopy were negative, as well as the wide serological battery requested was also negative (HIV, Rose of Bengala, Toxoplasma, CMV, EBV, Leishmania parense IV) test was initially performed
Prostate increased in size with calcification in its thickness secondary to previous prostatitis.
On chest/abdomen CT, the most important finding is the presence of supravascular mediastinal lymphadenopathy (the largest window at the pretracheal and retrocapulmonary situation, with a smaller axis of 8.5 mm).
Bilateral hiliar adenopathies (the largest in the left) with a 1 cm axis without parenchymal alteration.
Abdominally, small cystic formations compatible with biliary cysts and small retrocrural adenopathy, retroperitoneal mesentery and non-significant size were observed.
Echocardiography showed no vegetations.
A diagnostic test was performed during the hospital stay.
Differential diagnosis For the differential diagnosis, it is important to make a thorough clinical history and physical examination, in addition to assessing those processes that may present with fever and polyadenopathic picture of generalized distribution, including infections, systemic diseases and▁neoplasms.
The main causal microorganisms that can cause generalized lymphadenopathies are: 1.
Bacteria: Leptospira, Brucella, Ehrlichia, Lys, Lyersinia, Mycoplasma tuberculosis, Trepon ph aliquot, and adenomaophilum, Francisella turppum, Barton
2.
Viruses: herpes group virus (EBV, CMV, VZV,HV-6), HIV, HBV, HAV, Parvovirus B19, Western measles, influenza virus
3.
Fungi: Cryptococcus, Histoplasma, Coccidiodides, Toxoplasma, Leishmania (kala-azar), Trypanosomas and filariae.
The differential diagnosis of fever and adenopathies should include, in the acute forms, a reaction to drugs (hydantoins, sarcoidosis, periodic isoniazid, hyperkyloglobulinemia,▁lymphoproliferative syndrome,▁lymphocytic leukemia,▁lymphocytic syndrome),
In our case, the prolonged chronology of the clinic, the absence of consumption of the above mentioned drugs, seems unlikely to be due to a pharmacological reaction.
We also excluded a possible episode of reconstitution or elimination of Kaaki disease from the differential diagnosis because the clinical presentation is not considered recent, so we will focus on chronic forms and infectious causes.
In the field of chronic forms, the patient did not present typical symptoms of hyperthyroidism such as weight loss, tachycardia. In addition, the profile was rigorously described. As the patient did not present any typical signs of arthritis, other skin series were not show normal.
Kikuchi's disease is a rare disease that most often affects Eastern women between the 2nd and 3rd decade of life. This is not the case of a 58-year-old male patient.
Among the granulomatous diseases to mention sarcoidosis characterized by polyadenopatic picture among other manifestations such as respiratory symptoms, visual, constitutional syndrome, although many patients may be asymptomatic, the presence of bilateral adenopathy usually excludes the presence of
One of the causes that cannot be completely ruled out is the presence of concomitant▁lymphoproliferative syndrome, although it is true that the patient does not have B symptoms or previous constitutional symptoms, but we must take it into account as one of the most plausible diagnoses.
Among the infectious causes, first of all, mentioning pathologies caused by M. tuberculosis can simulate a great diversity of pathologies, in our patient there was no epidemiological history or characteristic radiological pattern, besides the negative tuberculin skin test results.
In the directed anamnesis he denied risk relations, consumption of responsible substances for parenteral route or previous transfusions with determination of serology for HIV, syphilis, HBV, HCV, and HAV being discarded these clinical pictures.
Our patient had contact with a correctly vaccinated dog, but denied having received bite from it that could have caused skin lesions.
We discarded microorganisms that are usually given in immunosuppressed patients, other agents to consider in this case is CMV, EBV and toxoplasma whose serology was negative.
Finally, T. whipplei is a gram-positive bacterium that can cause a multisystem disease with a wide variety of clinical manifestations among them and in favor of our patient prolonged fever without apparent focality, generalized abdominal pain and in this case.
In addition to the above mentioned complementary exams, a mild upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed moderate edema and white deposits in large endoscopy in second portion of duodenal biopsy of rice.
During admission to the plant favorable evolution, presenting fever peak of 38oC on a single occasion, with determination of hemocultives as previously mentioned negative.
Asymptomatic discharge and affine, the patient was referred to the outpatient clinic for infectious diseases for follow-up, with a pending histological result of the biopsy.
At this point, we can formulate an initial clinical judgment of prolonged intermittent fever without focality and generalized lymphadenopathies pending completion of study, with lesions of the duodenal mucosa pending anatomopathological diagnosis.
Once the result of the pathological anatomy was obtained, in which histiocytes with foamy cytoplasm in the lamina propria were observed, showing PAS positive bacilli (mucous fragments compatible with endoscopic diagnosis of whipp's disease).
After the results it was decided to start a programmed admission to intravenous treatment with Ceftriaxone (2 gr iv/day) for 2 weeks, continuing later oral treatment with Trimetropin-Stethoxazole (160/800 mg outpatient).
The patient was reviewed in consultation, the last 14 months after starting treatment finding the asymptomatic patient with remission of febrile syndrome.
Endoscopic control study was performed without evidence of alterations in the second portion of the duodenum with a new determination of CRP for negative T. whipplei, analytically inflammatory parameters within normal limits.
After the above, it was decided to end antibiotic treatment and the patient was discharged.
Final diagnosis Whipple's disease
