A 38-year-old patient, from Luque, a fashionable profession, known as hypertensive, with irregular treatment with Losartan 50 mg/day.
Gynecoobstetric history of three pregnancies, two deliveries, one stillbirth and reports that her mother has arthritis since the age of 50 years. She suffered from bilateral fever, pain radiating to pain relief after three months of progressive pain.
Three weeks before admission the pain of the same characteristics mentioned migrates to the left ankle and becomes bilateral and symmetrical not yielding picture with analgesics decrease common to the department who requests persistent fever before admission, referred to emergency services.
Subsequently, the patient goes to the room where she is admitted with the following laboratory results.
Value data were: A the physical examination of both knees fascia with mild dysneomegaly irradiating heart failure to mucous membranes; in the respiratory system, poor respiratory mechanics, tachypnea, dyspnea on both bases blx heart rate.
No inflammatory signs in other diseases.
With these data, the following diagnoses are proposed: left heart failure, mitral and aortic insufficiency, a confirmed collagenopathy, anemic syndrome, controlled hypertension.
In the following days the patient has feverish peaks so polyculture is performed.
A volume of concentrated red blood cells was transfused, resulting in worsening of the patient's dyspnea. She had previously returned negative direct Coombs test.
Simple computed tomography of the▁thorax was then performed, showing a diffuse interstitial pattern with bilateral pleural effusion in both bases, so thinking about a collagenopathy, methylprednisoles were initiated (5 grams).
Dilution was requested within the limits prescribed by the patient: antiphosphorus/5ANA, DNA, anti-CCP, C3, C4, Anti-B2 glycoprotein, Anticardiolipin Prot. All but 1 returned normal
Transthoracic echocardiogram showed vegetation in the aortic and mitral valves, with pseudoaneurysm of an aortic valve and a mitral valve, in addition to perforation of an aortic valve, with little empirical antibiotic therapy initiated.
Days later, positive blood cultures for Streptococcus alpha hemolytic returned in 3 of 8 cases.
Subsequently, the patient underwent a bivalvular replacement with mechanical valves, which was successful.
It returns the pathological anatomy results of the vegetations that informs what follows:"Heart valves with marked degenerative changes (fibrosis, hyalinization and myxoid changes).
Numerous etiologies are also observed, some of them with changes suggestive of previous rheumatologic pathology.
A marked acute inflammatory infiltrate and fibrin deposits corresponding to vegetations were observed on the surface.
Histological findings are compatible with acute bacterial endocarditis."
Pathological diagnosis is a follow-up bacterial acute disease due to Anitschkow cell chronicity. Bacterial symptoms are presumed to be a definitive comorbidity due to endoscopic▁retrograde cholangiopathy.
