A 28-year-old male, born in Peru, living in Spain for two weeks.
She had no history of interest, contact with animals, toxic habits, or usual treatment.
She came to the emergency room for scapular pain, severe dyspnea and fever of up to 39oC for five days.
He had no oral problems or pharyngeal pain, cough, expectoration, clinical inflammatory bowel disease or known risk factors for liver cirrhosis.
The examination revealed tension-free mass, with figures of 124/85 mmHg and 95 bpm, fever (38.3oC), adequate respiratory rate, and 97% did not receive chest physiotherapy.
Cardiac and pulmonary auscultation and abdominal examination showed no abnormalities.
There were no meningeal signs, oropharyngeal alterations or stigmata of endocarditis.
Nor did he present findings in lower limbs suggestive of venous thrombosis.
Analytical results showed marked leukocytosis (20,840 cells/microL) with neutrophilia (18,110 cells/ microL) and serum concentrations of C-reactive protein (CRP) of 255 mg/L 0.6 ng/ml.
There was also an increase in total bilirubin (mg/dl), specifically elevated bilirubin (GPT 155 IU/l), and increased transaminase (GOT 40 IU/l).
Hemocultives were extracted, pneumococcus antigen in urine and a chest X-ray was performed, where multiple pulmonary nodules with dubious cavitation were observed in any of them.
Empirical treatment with ceftriaxone 1 g/24 hours and metronidazole 500 mg/8 hours was initiated and admission to the Infectious Diseases plant was requested.
Differential diagnosis We will establish the differential diagnosis of a patient with fever and multiple pulmonary nodules.
The most common causes of multiple pulmonary nodules and fever are▁neoplasms, systemic inflammatory diseases, infections and vascular processes.
• Malignancies.
They can be primary lung cancer (adenocarcinoma and squamous cells, mainly) or metastases (bronchial carcinoma, colon, breast, kidney, melanoma and sarcoma as the most common causes).
Another uncommon cause in this section is neuroendocrine tumors, typically endobronchial.
The patient had no risk factors for lung cancer.
The clinical presentation of these▁neoplasms is usually more larvated than that presented by the patient. In addition, symptoms indicative of primary involvement of any of the supposed organs affected in case of suspected constitutional metastases are frequent.
• Tumors located in the skull.
The most common cause of lung cancer is hamartoma, with a mixed histological component, slow progressive growth, and brown appearance of maize both on radiography and computed tomography (CT).
• Multiple pulmonary thromboembolism, as a cause of pulmonary infarction, could be considered in the differential diagnosis, but was ruled out by clinical examination and contrast-enhanced chest CT (see later results).
• Systemic inflammatory diseases.
Wegener's disease (multiple pulmonary nodules associated with otorhinolaryngological and renal involvement) and Churg Strauss3 vasculitis (pulmonary infiltrates, migrating neurological asthma) are included in this group.
Other diseases that are included in the differential diagnosis are rheumatoid arthritis (pulmonary rheumatoid nodules, accompanied by symmetrical distal arthritis), sarcoidosis and local hydatid deposits with other local hylioid diseases.
They are the most frequent cause within the group of benign etiology.
These include: - Mycobacteria.
The symptoms are usually more common, with progressive deterioration of general condition, fever, sweating and hemoptoic cough.
- Hong Kong.
They are endemic in certain areas of America.
Sometimes they have pneumonia associated with the presence of nodules.
Histoplasmosis,▁coccidioidomycosis and paracoccidioidomycosis stand out.
- Septic emboli secondary to right endocarditis, typical of parenteral drug users, mostly secondary to Staphylococcus aureus infection.
- Lemierre syndrome, septic thromboflebitis from a parapharyngeal abscess caused by Fus necrophorum.
- Necrotizing pneumonia due to some strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae, S. aureus and anaerobes.
Pulmonary thromboembolism. After passing to the Infectious Diseases ward, a contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the chest was requested, in which there were no repletion defects in the pulmonary arteries.
Multiple pulmonary nodules were visualized, with no evidence of necrosis in its interior, with peripheral distribution (most subpleural) affecting all lung lobes, compatible with septic emboli.
No mediastinal lymphadenopathy was observed.
In the included abdominal sections, a nodule was observed in the periphery of segment V hepatic, with peripheral uptake and central hypodensity, compatible with abscess, so the study was completed with abdominal CT.
The latter showed a hypodense vascular structure in the central area of the liver that drained into the inferior vena cava, compatible with minor suprahepatic branch thrombosis.
▁Circumferential thickening of the walls of the loops of the yey (chief), with an inflammatory-infectious aspect, was also detected.
Portal thrombosis was not observed.
On the same day, they informed the Microbiology Department of growth in hemocultives of Baoides fragilis.
The patient had a favorable evolution with prescribed antibiotics (metronidazole 500 mg every 8 hours intravenously), the fever disappeared after 24 hours and showed clear clinical improvement, remaining without dyspnea and without general affectation.
During admission, the following additional tests were requested to determine the origin of the condition: • Transthoracic and later transesophageal echocardiography, which ruled out the presence of endocarditis.
• Doppler ultrasound of the supra-aortic trunks, which ruled out jugular vein thrombosis.
• Intestinal stenosis.
Hyper-enhancement of the proximal jejunum was still observed.
The liver abscess had decreased considerably in size.
Thrombosis of one of the suprahepatic veins was still observed.
No portal vein thrombosis or other abnormalities were observed.
• Control analytical tests.
They showed a progressive decrease in acute phase reactants and hepatic cytolysis enzymes.
• Control X-ray: mild improvement in nodular lesions.
After 7 days of admission and for personal reasons, the patient was discharged after a clear symptomatic improvement. Oral treatment with metronidazole 250 mg 2 tablets every 8 hours was established to complete a total of 28 days.
Final diagnosis Pulmonary septic embolism caused by Baoides fragilis secondary to proximal jejunitis.
