We report the case of a 68-year-old man with diarrhea lasting more than 14 days and weight loss of 8 kg in three months.
Among his personal history, stand out transplant due to cardiomyopathy of ischemic origin (2005), carrier of cardiac endocardial effusion, chronic renal failure grade IV and urothelial carcinoma diagnosed a few months earlier.
Establishment plan for the implementation of new technologies for the treatment of mental disorders.
The patient came to the emergency room in June 2014 reporting a clinical picture of four to five daily stools of liquid consistency and without pathological products along with abdominal pain marked in the right hypochondrium for approximately two weeks.
He also reported loss of about eight kilos of weight in three months and had suffered a recent diagnosis of urothelial carcinoma of the bladder which had not yet been treated.
The examination revealed a distended abdomen, percussion▁tympanic membrane and tenderness to palpation with hypersensitivity in the right iliac fossa.
With no relevant findings in the complementary tests performed in the emergency department, she was admitted for digestive study that was completed with abdominal CT, fecal culture, determination of serum levels, serological studies of Clostridium difficile infections and Clostridium difficile.
Abdominal CT showed symmetrical thickening of the walls of the third duodenal portion with trabeculation of the adjacent fat.
Digestive symptoms improved with symptomatic treatment, intravenous fluid therapy and dietary rest.
On the fifth day of admission, the patient began with high fever and disseminated vesicular lesions with involvement of extremities, trunk, face and scalp very pruritic.
In an analytical performed at that time, the following findings stand out: 11000 leukocytes/mm3 with 9830 neutrophils/mm3, creatinine 2.4 mg/dL and C-reactive protein 244 mg/L.
A chest X-ray showed interstitial infiltrate in the right hemithorax with greater involvement of the pulmonary base.
Seizures C-reactive protein (CRP) levels are determined by empirical treatment with a virologic agent and V levofloxacin. Blood and sputum cultures are requested, and a sample of the▁exudates is taken from the gallbladder
Differential diagnosis The list of possible causes of diarrhea is quite extensive.
The duration of symptoms allows us to narrow the possible options by differentiating between acute diarrhea lasting less than two weeks and chronic diarrhea lasting more than two weeks.
On the other hand, the presence of fever, chills, blood or pus remains in the stool are clinical data that guide us to an inflammatory process usually of infectious nature.
Infectious causes should be considered especially in immunosuppressed patients or as in our case.
The probability of different etiologies will vary according to the time elapsed since transplantation.
Acquired infections with a long evolution time are the most frequent in the community.
In these patients it is especially necessary to perform a biopsy, which will provide data on the extent of the process and may also suggest other diagnoses such as inflammatory bowel disease, ischemic colitis or neoplasia.
Mycophenolate mofetil is frequently used in gastroenteritis in patients whose side effects are found, which sometimes determines dose modifications to be prescribed.
Finally, Clostridium difficile colitis is an option that should always be considered in this group of patients.
In our patient, the duration of symptoms longer than two weeks and the absence of pathological products in▁faeces lead us to consider as unlikely the most common causes of acute episodes and invasive bacterial infections.
Nevertheless, given the patient's condition of being immunosuppressed, a clinical evolution of common causes of acute diarrhea could be expected.
It is important to consider uncommon infections in immunocompetent subjects such as cytomegalovirus enteritis (CMV) as well as drug toxicities such as mycophenolate.
The cardiovascular risk factors characteristic of a patient with coronary disease forces us to consider ischemic colitis and given its history of urothelial neoplasia and higher incidence of tumors reported in patients with chronic treatment of other immune-pressive diarrhea, the possibility of a
Our patient also presented fever and disseminated vesicular lesions on the fifth day, which progressed to crust formation, presenting in different evolutionary stages within a few days and allowing the clinical diagnosis of disseminated herpes.
However, at an early stage, the clinical diagnosis was not so evident and other diagnostic hypotheses could be raised, such as bullous pefingoid, erythema multiforme or drug rash.
VZV PCR result in▁exudate from one of the vesicles was positive.
Serology showed IgG positive for VZV and IgM negative.
Other requested serologic studies (heartburn A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, Epstein&#146;s virus, herpes simplex virus I and II (HSV), Yersinia, Coxiella infections or HIV) provide
Fecal culture and determination of Clostridium difficile toxin in▁faeces were also negative.
Fever disappeared and acute phase reactants decreased and the number of stools per day decreased.
Upper and lower endoscopy showed inflammatory signs in the colon with some ulceration.
Colonic mucosa samples were taken and cytological changes and inclusion bodies compatible with viral infection were observed.
PCR was performed with positive results for CMV (112 copies) in the histological and plasma samples (330 copies).
CMV serology showed positive IgG and negative IgM.
Intravenous treatment with ganciclovir with dose adjusted to renal function was initiated as well as total parenteral nutrition given the data of protein-caloric malnutrition and the persistence of diarrhea.
Mycophenolate levels were requested with results below the therapeutic range.
Treatment with intravenous ganciclovir for 14 days was continued. Valganciclovir was initiated with valganciclovir to achieve negativization of serum viral load in the first week and clinical consistency was improved with a decrease in the number of oral ganciclovir resistance.
Valganciclovir continued until 30 days.
A few months after discharge, the patient suffered a new clinical deterioration with intense pruritus, jaundice, elevation of the stasis enzymes, intrahebilirubinemia, and data compatible with biliary tract tumor with progression.
By patient's decision, no more diagnostic or therapeutic tests were performed, and the patient was transferred to palliative care.
The patient finally died as a result of tumor progression.
Final diagnosis▁Cytomegalovirus enteritis.
Disseminated zoster herpes.
