Seek medical advice Cutaneous eruption of unknown etiology and progression in the arms of three days in a patient who had taken ciprofloxacin 500 mg orally, single dose, as prophylaxis by contact with meningococci for four days.
Individual approach Male, 27 years old.
Allergic to penicillin.
Unrelevant personal and family history.
Anamnesis: she comes to the Primary Care clinic referring that four days ago while she was in the day care center at the hospital where she works helped to perform a lumbar puncture in a patient with suspected bacterial meningitis.
Subsequently, upon confirmation of the diagnosis, all healthcare personnel in contact with the patient had to take ciprofloxacin 500 mg single oral dose as a prophylactic measure.
Less than 24 hours there are small and discreetly pruritic pink skin lesions, distributed over plaques, which have evolved into smaller areas, even those that begin to form coalesce, or plaques overly.
Currently, there is no pruritus or fever.
She denied previous illness or risky sexual behavior.
Physical examination showed good general condition.
Erythematous lesions with circular erythematous pigmentosae "on the target" were observed, some with symmetric central blisters, predominantly acral.
No mucosal or lip alteration.
▁Complementary tests: CBC with leukocytosis (15390 leukocytes) and neutrophilia (13560 neutrophils, 88%), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (GSR) 33 mm.
Biochemistry: glucose 120 mg/dl, C-reactive protein (CRP) 24.4 mg/l, normal rest.
Normal coagulation, except fibrinogen 6.0 g/l.
Normal urine.
Family and community approach 27 year old male and Spanish nationality.
Single but with a stable partner (stage 1 according to McGoldrick's family cycle), without children; he lives outside the family for work reasons.
Medium-high cultural level, nursing profession.
Clinical judgement Erythema multiforme or polymorph minor.
Differential diagnosis with other bullous diseases: pemphigus vulgaris, bullous pemphigoid pemphigoid dermatitis herpetiformis derivation, herpes infection, lupus vasculitis... action plan and is presented
In Primary Care, prednisone 30 mg was prescribed on a descending scale for 18 days.
The patient attends to pathology greatly improved, only persisting some residual lesions of tonal removal brown color.
Epithelializing lotion is prescribed.
When the lesions have been completely removed from Primary Care, they are reviewed.
