Anamnesis A 45-year-old male patient with hypertension, dyslipidemia, hepatitis C, mild mitral regurgitation, chronic renal failure secondary to posterior urethral valve, who required a subitutive treatment since 1980.
She underwent bilateral nephrectomy, parathyroid glands due to hyperfunction secondary to transplantation, necrotic lesions and tunnel syndrome.
She underwent kidney transplantation in 2008, received treatment with chemotherapy to treat mental retardation, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus.
He required permanent catheterization due to acontractility of the detrusor,▁refusing intermittent catheterization.
She had good controls and stable kidney function.
In 2012, she presented numerous episodes of recurrent urinary tract infections by different germs, such as Morganella, Escherichia coli, which were detected in cultures, without hematuria and with presence of mycuria.
Physical exam.▁~~~ Good general condition.
No weight loss.
No lower limb edemas.
The abdomen was blunt and depressible, with no masses or enlargement, except for renal implantation in the right iliac fossa, with no signs of peritoneal irritation or bladder balloon.
Scars from midline laparotomy and kidney transplantation in the abdominal wall.
Genital without alterations.
▁Complementary tests • An abdominal ultrasound is requested, identifying abundant intravesical echogenic material, as well as a 3.4 x 2.7 cm lesion with vascularization, suggesting bladder neoformation.
• For this reason cystoscopy is requested, which shows medium with abundant mucus and papillary lesion of approximately 3 cm suggesting malignancy.
Diagnosis For this reason, transurethral resection of the bladder was performed, with pathological diagnosis of enteric intravesical adenocarcinoma, without involvement of the muscle wall.
Given the results, an extension study is carried out to rule out concomitant neoplasia, performing a computed tomography (CT) tortico-abdominal-pelvic, not performing primary tumor.
Treatment The case is evaluated in the uro-oncological committee and it is decided to undertake radical surgery, so it is offered to the patient radical cystoprostatectomy with bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy and ureter derivation to the ileum.
The pathological result of the surgical specimen is multifocal mucinous enteric bladder adenocarcinoma with transmural involvement to the vicinity of the perivesical fat, tumor-free ureteral segment, and vesicles without seminal tumor involvement.
The patient remained stable during the postoperative period, with good evolution, with preserved renal function and diuresis.
On the contrary, the physician ruled out the need for systemic adjuvant treatment.
Nephrology does indeed carry out the change of a truly Bolivian concept.
One month after the intervention, a pigtail catheter was removed, and the patient developed hydronephrosis and impaired renal function, with creatinine of 2.3 mg/dl.
The decision was made to maintain an ROSC, establishing stenosis of the attitudinal junction due to granuloma; given that the patient maintains a urine output of 2,500-4,000 ml/ 24 hours, and a creatinine level of 2.4.
The patient has a progressive decrease in renal function to reach a preoperative level of 1.5.
Ten months after the intervention, the patient showed a stable evolution without signs of disease recurrence.
