A 16-year-old male without known drug allergies.
Among his personal history only stands out an umbilical hernia operated in childhood.
It does not present toxic habits and does not perform any home treatment in a usual way.
She is correctly vaccinated and is educated.
He lives in the field, has contact with domestic animals and animals, including: hens, rabbits, ducks, dogs, and a▁snakebites corn (Primphis salvata).
The patient came to the Emergency Department because while he spent a few days on the beach, he began to notice a progressive increase in the size of the right lower limb.
It began at the foot level and, upon arrival to the emergency room, it had already spread to the root of the ipsilateral thigh, presenting a fever of up to 39.5oC.
The patient did not remember the presence of bites or bites.
In the previous days, the patient had odynophagia, without cough or expectoration, and had no gastrointestinal or associated clinical signs of micturition.
Abdominal pain, pruritus, risky relationships, or trauma
He had been with friends and were all asymptomatic.
Upon arrival at the Emergency Room, the patient was in good general condition, alert, conscious, oriented by the three hemodynamically stable, with TA 121/67 mmHg, well hydrated and perfused, tanned by the sun.
Eupneic at rest and with walking, 98% had seizures without oxygen supply.
The oropharynx was hyperemic but without▁exudates; adenopathies were not present.
On examination, he had rhythmic cardiac tones at 80 systoles per minute, without audible murmurs.
Gallbladder murmur was preserved in both hemithorax and abdomen was blando, pre-pressible and non-painful to irritation or deep signs, presenting hydroneous noises without peritoneal mass, megaly
The right lower limb was warm and edematous, with primarily flattening at the twin level.
At the internal supramaleolar level, two punctiform, millimetric and symmetrical lesions were observed, without▁exudates, the Homans sign being negative.
He moved all his fingers and his pedal pulses were present.
The contralateral limb showed no edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
There was no focality in the neurological examination.
▁Complementary tests performed in the emergency room showed leukocytosis of 30,740 cells/μL to neutrophil exfoliation (28,350 cells/μL), the red series and platelet normal.
Coagulation times were long, INR was 1.28, prothrombin time (PT) was 15.7, sensitivity was 940 ng/dL, and specificity was 940 ng/dL.
At the biochemical level, a creatinine level of 2.13 mg/dl (being normal previous renal function) and a C-reactive protein of 363.46 mg/L stood out, with normal ionogram.
Blood cultures were extracted and subsequently negative. Doppler ultrasound of the right lower limb showed marked thickening of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, with significant signs of venous edema and a strong tendency towards venous thrombosis, suggestive of a deep venous vascularization.
e intravenous ceftarting the patient's clinical situation it was decided to admit the patient to the Department of Infectious Diseases with the diagnosis of gastrointestinal symptoms, with no signs and acute kidney injury clohacil in 6 hours internal treatment, with possible
Differential diagnosis Infections of the skin and soft tissues constitute a wide group of clinical pictures of diverse etiology, pathogenesis and prognosis, defining the location of the same and regardless of the microorganism that produces them.
When we are facing an infection of soft tissues, as is the patient presented, it is important to perform a detailed history and a thorough examination looking for a possible entrance door because the epidemiological history that refers to the patient may already have a superficial infection.
They usually present with a painful localized edema and redness of the skin as in the case of the patient presented here, discarding this entity after performing a Doppler ultrasound associated with absence of thrombotic pathology.
Skin rash associated with pruritus is characterized by direct contact with a substance or an allergic reaction to it.
Vesiculose lesions usually appear that the patient did not present and are not usually associated with fever, so the pathology was ruled out.
• Eosinophilic cellulitis or Sweet's syndrome: it is a dermal inflammatory condition with a large clinical polymorphism and can be self-limiting and recurrent.
Generally, there is a history of previous urticaria or atopia, as well as elevated ESR and immunoglobulin E1, alterations that the patient did not present.
• Tail: it usually manifests as joint inflammation and not of the entire lower limb as in the case in question, caused by the deposit of monosodium urate.
It is more common in older people and usually occurs in people with hyperuricemia.
• Erysipela: it is an acute, non-necrotizing dermal-hypodermic infection generally produced by S. pyogenes.
The onset is usually sudden with fever and erythematous, painful, hot plaque with well-defined borders.
The case presented here had progressive edema and no plaques were observed on examination.
• Cellulitis: is an acute infection of the deep dermis and subcutaneous cellular tissue characterized by pain, erythema, inflammation and heat confined.
It can be caused by the autochthonous staphylococcal flora and stenosis colonizes the skin and adnexa or by a wide variety of exogenous bacteria.
The patient had a compatible clinical picture and two millimetric lesions at supramaleolar level that could be the entrance door, so it was the diagnosis of suspicion.
• Deep necrotizing infections: these are infections that can affect the dermis, subcutaneous cellular tissue, superficial or deep fascia and muscle, associated with necrosis and have rapid progression.
Among these entities we can find myositis, myonecrosis and necrotizing fasciitis.
The onset of fever is common, as well as pain, hypersensitivity or cutaneous hypoesthesia, the existence of necrosis or hemorrhagic blisters that the patient did not present at the time of admission.
• Severe cutaneous manifestation of sarcoidosis: it is a severe infection usually caused by P. aeruginosa and occurs in immunocompromised or hospitalized patients.
In healthy patients there is a history of fol and in the patient is usually a rounded and oval lesion with erythematous halo and necrotic center that can be single or multiple, not appearing.
• Lymphedema: oedema caused by▁lymphocytic▁lymphocytic dysfunction that can be primary (chronic myelogenous seizure), secondary or primary (chronic idiopathic urticaria), post-therapeutic syndrome (chronic idiopathic urticaria),
Since the patient had no history of suspected lymphedema, as well as the presence of fever and elevated acute phase reactants, we ruled out this pathology.
Ev during admission to the ward improved renal function after administration of serum therapy, with a serum creatinine of 1.19 mg/dl being observed in the control laboratory at 48 hours.
After 48 hours of empirical treatment with cloxacillin 2g/6h and ceftriaxone 1g/24h, the patient was febrile, so that the patient was treated with amoxicillin every other hour continuous IV every 8mg was initiated.
At 72 hours there was a filthene that was not previously present and the patient continued with significant swelling and pain in the affected limb. A complete soft tissue scan was requested. Skin trauma and subcutaneous tenderness were requested in some areas.
An increase in volume was also observed in the muscles of the posterior compartment of the right and the contralateral, with fluid dissection of the muscle planes, including the deep transverse fascia, which presented a tenuous linear fascia
No gas was observed in soft tissues or dissecting fascial planes. However, it is important to remember that neither the absence of this abscess, nor the presence of enhancement in the right side fascia prostitute do not perform a prostitute fasciotomy.
After fasciotomy, the patient reported symptomatic improvement, but the next day he was still feverish and in pain, with isolation in the culture obtained in the operating room S. pyogenes amoxicillin wild-type strain 8mg plus antibiotic treatment with 600mg
The patient required a cure every 48 hours in the operating room, for which the code was changed to Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology with a joint follow-up by the service of Infectious Diseases, describing a continuous evolution of the same muse drainage.
In the samples obtained in the sixth day (at 17 days of admission) pipepacillin was isolated with clompidase, resistant to amoxicillin and clavulanic acid (with which he had completed 15 days of intravenous treatment together).
Another CT of the right lower limb was performed 18 days after admission, in which abscesses were visualized from the distal third of the thigh to the region of the ankle, the main location being the posterior aspect of the lower limb hollow thigh 12 cm.
There were abscesses in the external twin, a solution of continuity and loss of substance in bl tissues anterior and posterior of capture, visualized by contrast in blade tissues dispersed gas bubbles sealant.
After 48 hours of treatment initiation with P/T, the patient was afflicted and the treatment was maintained for a total of 13 days. The treatment was suspended after obtaining several negative cultures from the samples obtained in the surgical wounds.
He required a total of 19 cures in the operating room and reconstruction with coverage by anterolateral vascularized flap of the right thigh with favorable evolution, starting the support of the limb progressively and requiring rehabilitation sessions at discharge.
Final diagnosis. • Necrotizing fasciitis caused by S. pyogenes and overinfected by E. cloacae with recurrent fascia and coverage by anterolateral flap of the right thigh • acute renal failure
