Personal history: A 29-year-old male, born in Mali, living in Spain for 4.5 years.
He has not returned to his country of origin.
Its migratory route was: Côte d'Ivoire, assisted conception, patriarchy, Arg, Morocco and Fuerteventura.
Work on the greenhouses.
Living with 8 people in a house with good hygienic conditions.
A history of malaria repeatedly.
No toxic habits or other antecedents of interest.
You do not have regular treatment
No known drug allergies.
Current disease: Primary care referral to the Tropical Medicine (UMT) consultation for the study of hypertransaminasemia.
The patient came to his bedside doctor for abdominal pain related to food intake, normal stools, and who gave up treatment that does not contribute.
During this visit, the initial care protocol for the tingling patient was applied, including complete blood count, biochemistry with hepatorenal profile, serology of HBV, HCV, HIV and syphilis, as well as endemic areas for schistosomiasis.
Pruritus also presents nonspecific characteristics, unrelated to shower.
She had a history of hematuria in childhood for which she received a treatment that did not remember, and was asymptomatic since then.
Physical location: TA: 145/90, Weight: 60 kg.
Good general condition, well nourished.
Head and neck: no lymphadenopathy, no muguet.
ACR: rhythmic tones without murmurs; vesicular murmur preserved without pathological noises.
Abdomen blushing, depressible, non-painful, not suffering from enlargement or masses.
LLLL: no filariasis data; minimal interdigital mycosis between 4o-5o fingers of both feet.
Initial complementary tests: • Blood count: leukocytes 9120/microL (57.9% neutrophils, 33.6% lymphocytes, 8.5%▁eosinophils; 775▁eosinophils/mm3).
Hb 15.7 mg/dl, hematocrit 46.5%, MCV 89.1; MCH 30.1; Platelets 279.000/microL.
• Biochemistry: AST 93 IU/L, ALT 184 IU/L, GGT 125IU/L, FA 91 IU/L, normal rest.
• Serology: HIV, HCV and negative syphilis.
HBV: HBsAg -, HBsAg -, HBcAg +.
• Fecal▁parasites with concentration technique (Ritchie) 3 samples (x3): Blastocystis hominis.
Differential diagnosis The differential diagnosis is made on the one hand in hypertransaminasemia and on the other hand in the ̄s disease.
Tropical is one of the most common syndromes faced by clinicians in patients with imported diseases.
Although allergic and hypersensitivity processes must be considered as possible causes, systemic inflammatory diseases and▁neoplasms (hematological and solid organ tumors), the most common etiology in patients from tropical diseases (our primary patient) comes from tropical diseases caused by
The absence of specific symptoms of the first causes makes the parasitic origin more likely.
In the anamnesis, the patient refers to episodes of hematuria in childhood, possibly due to schistosomiasis, an endemic disease of African countries orcci.
Among the possibilities to consider are: Nematodes, include: 1.
Geopodosis (uncinacina, Trichuris trichuria, Ascaris lumaria,
2.
Associates (oncocerciasis, lymph filariasis, genus Mansonella, Loa loa).
3.
Other less common symptoms include cough, anisakis.
Methods: Tenia solium, Tenia saginata, Hymenolepis nana, Equinococcus granulosus.
Trematodes: Schistosoma haematobium, Schistosoma intercalatum and Schistosoma mansoni, Hepatic Fasciola.
In relation to liver involvement, the possible causes to consider in this patient are: • Viral hepatitis.
Chronic HBV hepatitis affects more than 350 million people worldwide, and the prevalence in most Sub-Saharan African countries is higher than 8%.
In our case, HBsAg is negative, but the possibility of occult hepatitis B (HBcAb+, HBsAg-, positive viral load) should be considered.
Chronic HCV hepatitis should also be considered, although the prevalence of the disease is lower in patients from this area.
The other etiologies (HAV, HEV) manifest as acute hepatitis, which seems reasonable to rule out.
• Parasitosis.
Hepatic Fasciola, Ascaris lumpoides (associated with cholangitis, tapeworm), and schistosomiasis stand out among those which can affect hepatic Fasciola.
Schistosomiasis, mainly caused by S. mansoni, can give rise to presinus portal hypertension, characterized by intense periportal fibrosis, hyperfunction of the liver and esophageal varices, and can even be classified as periportal fibrosis.
• Tumors of age: hepatocellular carcinoma is a very prevalent entity among patients from endemic areas for HBV, in which the acquisition of the disease in childhood allows the appearance of this type of tumors in patients.
• Other possibilities to consider would be autoimmune hepatitis, drug, alcohol, metabolic, granulomatous or idiopathic.
Ev Se prescribed topical treatment with ciclopiroxo and topical therapy is requested according to the study protocol and treatment of occult ultrasound UMT, as well as abdominal and bladder, and HBV viral load to rule out hepatitis B
The results are shown below: • Blood count: leukocytes 5,430/microL (4.2%▁eosinophils; 230▁eosinophils/mm3).
Hb 14.4 mg/dl.
Platelets 189,000/microL
• sickle cell trait (heterozygous for HbS; HbS 37%).
• Biochemistry: AST 48 IU/L, ALT 74 IU/L, GGT 81UI/L, FA 119 IU/L, normal rest, including iron metabolism, renal and lipid profile.
IgE: 243 IU/mL.
• Urine: normal sediment.
• Coagulation: PT 74%, INR: 1.2, aPTT 27.8 sg.
• Serotherapy: arthritis (ELISA): NEGATIVA; Schistosoma (ELISA): MUY POSITIVA.
HBV: HBsAg -, • HBV PCR: POSITIVA; HBV DNA quantification: 1,000 IU/mL.
• Parasitological studies: 1.
Fecal▁parasites with concentration technique (x3): NEGATIVES.
2.
Blood microfilariae study (Knott test): NEGATIVO.
3.
Urinary▁parasites with concentration technique: NEGATIVES.
• Alpha-fetoprotein: 1.4 ng/mL • Chest and abdominal X-ray: no abnormalities.
• Mantoux: 10 mm.
• Abdominal and bladder ultrasound: normal-sized liver with abnormal echostructure.
Hyperechogenicity of periportal tissue with intense fibrosis.
Increased caliber port (15 mm) and 12 cm long bone.
Normal-walled bladder
Diagnosis of occult hepatitis B and signs of chronic liver disease, with very suggestive data of parasite by Schistosoma, rectal biopsy is requested, showing mucosa with presence of schistosomiasis eggs.
Subsequently, a liver biopsy was performed to assess the degree of disease activity, with the following result: "liver parenchyma replaced by small nodules with fibrous connective tracts thick▁lymphocytic necrosis and inflammatory infiltrate accumulation with▁eosinophils.
Regenerative changes in hepatocytes.
Final diagnosis was compatible with chronic viral liver disease (grade 2 activity, grade 3 fibrosis), and possibly secondary to schistosomiasis although not visualized).
Serology of HDVelta (POITIVE AcVHD, VHD PCR: NEGATIVA) and gastroscopy were requested, to which the patient was denied.
The findings described▁herein began treatment with praziquantel (40 mg/Kg weight, 1 day and tenofovir 300 mg/day), currently showing good adherence to treatment, the last viral load of HBV being negative.
Final diagnosis Chronic liver disease secondary to schistosomiasis and occult hepatitis B.
