Pain and inflammation in the left hemiabdomen.
Anamnesis and physical examination A 40-year-old male, with no personal history of interest, drinking about three beers a day, without usual treatment at home.
The patient was seen in the emergency department due to fever of up to 38oC and pain with a sensation of inflammation in the left hemiabdomen for about 20 days.
The patient had a moderate effort during the last ten days, with no cough or expectoration.
He had no weight loss or night sweats, and did not report other symptoms in the anamnesis by equipment.
She had come to the hospital twice at the beginning of the clinical picture, where laboratory tests had been performed, highlighting mild leukocytes and abnormal CRP levels. She also had received subcutaneous amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, among which another patient had noted improvement.
Physical examination revealed blood pressure 140/100 mmHg, heart rate 100 bpm, basal oxygen saturation 93%, temperature 37.5oC.
The general condition is good, with good level of consciousness and orientation in the three.
No cervical or axillary lymph nodes were found.
Cardiac auscultation revealed fever without murmurs and hyperventilation on the left lung was observed.
Abdomenade, not painful blepation, other non-paresis, mass or enlargement in the lateral and posterior area of the left hemiabdomen presents edematization of the temperature, slightly erythematous
Extremities without edema, with palpable distal pulses and no other changes.
No cervical lymphadenopathy was found at the cervical, axillary or inguinal level.
The examination of the cranial nerves is normal and preserves intact strength, muscle tone and sensitivity.
▁Complementary tests In the emergency room, an analytical assessment stands out with 106000 leukocytes/μL, with normal leukocyte formula, hemoglobin 13.8 g/dL, platelets 183000/μL.
Coagulation with 75% prothrombin activity.
Biochemistry with glucose, normal renal function and CRP 47.
A chest X-ray showed left pleural effusion.
The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at 85 bpm, with normal QRS axis and no changes in repolarization.
An abdominal ultrasound was also performed in which a thickening of the muscular belly abdominal oblique, dorsal wide and left serrated was observed, as well as mild inflammatory changes of the subcutaneous cellular fat and mild changes of the subcutaneous fat.
With these data, she was admitted to the Internal Medicine ward to study localized or focal myositis.
Differential diagnosis Myositis is an inflammation of the musculoskeletal tissue that may be caused by different pathologies.
Infection is an uncommon cause of soft tissue infections.
It may be caused by multiple pathogens, including viruses (Coxsackie group B or HIV), trichoderma and bacterial infections.
In addition, in the case of penetrating wounds contaminated by Clostridium perfringens, which causes hypersensitivity gasse 1.
Inflammatory myopathies include a heterogeneous group of muscle diseases that have in common a muscle weakness of subacute or chronic course and the presence of inflammatory infiltrates in muscle biopsy.
Polymyositis is characterized by weakness of proximal and symmetrical predominance of chronic course, in addition to systemic manifestations.
▁Dermatomyositis is also included, characterized by asthenia and fever, later muscle involvement and skin lesions.
Finally, inclusion body myosotis is the only most prevalent in males, characterized by slow-course and symmetric weakness, initially in lower limbs, and affecting muscles.
2 Metabolic myopathies have in common abnormalities in muscle energy metabolism, muscle biopsy reveals necrosis of the fibers and phagocytosis, in addition to esonophilic myosotis as part of a granulomatous syndrome or granulomatous myola.
Other diseases to consider in the diagnosis especially when the form is localized is muscle cancer and/or thromboflebitis.
3 Diagnosis of inflammatory myopathies is suspected on the basis of clinical characteristics and is confirmed by laboratory tests, serum concentration of muscle enzymes, presence of autoantibodies, muscle biopsy and electromyography.
Recently, magnetic resonance imaging and muscle ultrasound have been introduced as auxiliary tools in the differential diagnosis of myopathies.
The definitive diagnostic procedure is muscle biopsy, which should ideally be performed before the start of treatment and usually takes the vastolateral, deltoid or biceps brachii muscle involvement patient is usually located only in the lateral muscle tissue.
Because of the epidemiological background of the patient, the diagnosis of trichilecystis was established, treatment with albendazole and antibiotic therapy was initiated directed at the secondary infection caused by the disease.
Hemocultive, coprocultive and serology (including trichin spiralis) were also taken with negative results.
The patient's muscle injury did not improve despite the beginning of the treatment, even with progression to other muscle belly. In addition, the pleural effusion progressively worsened, although the result was abundant and malignant to a diagnosis compatible with pathological anatomy.
Finally, it was necessary to perform a pleural drainage due to respiratory failure with massive pleural effusion.
residual left flaccid edema was also observed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the muscle was requested in the cavity that showed a non-functioning abdominal wall, inflammatory changes, fundamental involvement of the abdominal wall muscles.
Finally, it was decided to perform muscle biopsy by surgery, sending the sample to the microbiology and pathology laboratories of our center.
Microbiological study was negative.
The pathological study is made of fibroliferous tissue and immunostained bundles showing a proliferation of large cells and oval nucleus with numerous▁eosinophils after the peripheral▁immunohistochemical study determines▁lymphoproliferative
The patient was evaluated by the Ontario Palliative Care Service, who started chemotherapy with CHOP regimen with the hospitalized patient, with good tolerance by the patient, so that discharge was decided to continue outpatient treatment and follow-up
Currently, chemotherapy treatment has been completed, and in the last reviews it is in a situation of complete remission.
