PRESENTATION, PRESENTATION AND HOSPITAL EXPLORT Male, 36 years old.
Background Hypertension Stage III chronic renal failure secondary to vesicoureteral reflux Current disease The patient reports fever and vomiting for 3 days,▁malaise, generalised pain, dysthermic sensation, chills.
Respiratory system disorders:
Chest radiography: normal.
Analytical: biochemical: creatinine 7.99 mg/gl; Na 131 mEq/l; K 4.59 mEq/l, CRP 23.09 mg/dl.
Gases: pH 7.23, pCO2 36 mmHg, pO2 14 mmHg, HCO3 15 mmol/l, Ebb – 11.6 mmol/l.
Blood count: Hb 11.6 g/dl, platelets 80 x1000/ul, leukocytes 16.30x1000/ul, neutrophils 94.7%.
Coagulation: prothrombin activity 65%, INR 1.34 abdominal CT with chest views: normal abdomen.
In the sections included in the study, a 1 cm nodule is observed in the LID, two in LII (more than 5 mm) and another in the anterior part of the▁thorax, assessing all of them indeterminate etiology.
Hemoculture: Methicillin-susceptible S. aureus.
Transthoracic echocardiography: image compatible with septal defect 15x10 mm anchored to septum IV.
Restrictive communication.
Transesophageal echocardiogram is recommended.
Transesophageal echocardiogram ruled out other valves involvement.
EVOLU sets the febrile syndrome presented by the patient two hemocultives are requested.
A possible abdominal focus is suspected by the clinic and an abdominal CT is performed which discards it, although possible infectious foci in lungs are evidenced.
Two sets of hemocultives that are positive for Staphylococcus aureus are extracted.
When S. aureus was isolated in both sets and the presence of left bundle branch block and murmur was not previously known, a restrictive echocardiogram (G) and a septal defect (G) of the subvalvular apparatus were performed.
Antibiotic therapy was initiated with intravenous cloxacillin, after which the patient remains asymptomatic with a decrease in acute phase reactants and serial sterile hemocultive control.
A control transthoracic echocardiogram was performed 7 days after the start of antibiotic therapy, and it was found that the image of seeing has not decreased in size.
Watchful waiting was maintained and 14 days after antibiotic treatment was started, a new echocardiographic control was performed, which showed no changes with respect to the diagnostic echocardiogram.
Persistent vegetation is indicated, together with the Cardiac Surgery Department, surgical intervention.
The possibilities to the patient are exposed and accepted.
Vegetation resection and closure were performed with direct suture of the IVC.
The patient progresses favorably and is included in the hemodialysis program.
DIAGNOSIS due to tricuspid stenosis S. aureus.
