Consultation overload A 69-year-old man with pain in the left lower limb of one month duration who has been treated with physiotherapy with relative improvement, and who has been associated with muscle exacerbation for 5 days is initiated.
Individual approach Anamnesis: A 69-year-old patient complaining of muscle overload of one month of evolution who has been treated with physiotherapy with relative improvement, and who for 5 days has exacerbated this pain with cold relief, swallowed
Location: An increase in the diameter and erythema of the left lower limb is observed, as well as an increase in local temperature and swelling when compared to the contralateral lower limb.
Analytical: in a first analytical performed in the medical recognition of his company that provided the patient, on 09/29/2017 day, it was observed a leukocytosis (21,000) with lymphocytosis (15,600 / 74.4%).
Leukocytosis was once more detected in laboratory tests (28,000) with lymphocyte count (2,70 / 72.4%), and positive for Epstein-associated virus.
▁Complementary tests: Epipplelerdo MMII Izqui (20/09/2017): Partially recanalized and Southern popliteal thrombosis.
Femoral venous system in good condition.
Arterial system was normal.
Clinical judgement: PVT sural popliteal.
▁Cytomorphology (30/11/2017): mature lymphocytes of small size condensed chromatin nucleus, abundant Getch sombers, non-blastic cells.
Chronic Lymphatic Leukemia type B▁lymphoproliferative syndrome (CLL).
Family and community approach work as autonomous patient of a jamon company.
There are no significant diseases in his list of problems currently, and he also performed about two hours of daily physical exercise before the onset of thrombotic disease.
The doctor-patient relationship was absent prior to this episode, since the patient only required sporadic health care with full-year intervals between consultations, from these episodes it has been initiated favorably.
Clinical judgement Symptom presentation: increased diameter and erythema of the left lower limb, as well as increased local temperature and swelling compared to the contralateral lower limb.
And although asymptomatic, the presence of leukocytosis with lymphocytosis in laboratory tests.
There was a possible deep venous thrombosis and pathology of the white series under study.
Differential diagnoses should include: Deep vein thrombosis▁SV Cellulitis▁SV musculoskeletal pathology.
Pathology of the white series.
After assessing the clinical history along with the symptoms presented, a possible DVT was diagnosed starting treatment and being confirmed by complementary tests days later.
According to the analytical findings, the patient is referred to the Hematology Service to complete a diagnostic study.
Currently, he presented in his list of problems:▁OSAS with CPAPn, cataracts (Intervented) and distal polyneuropathy.
Action plan Treatment of deep venous thrombosis with low molecular weight heparin and diosmin combined with hesperidin, confirming days later by the Angiology and Vascular Surgery Service.
Establishment of the Hematology Service given the analytical findings obtained, as well as the cytomorphology results.
Venous thrombosis, now the first reason for consultation, such as deep vein thrombosis, was resolved with conservative treatment.
As for referral to the Hematology Department, the patient was seen in outpatient clinics of this specialty three days after referral.
The patient does not present symptoms B at present, and a CAT-Body was performed on 11/16/2017 in which no pathological changes were found to highlight, no visceromegaly or adenopathies were diagnosed.
Binnet Stage A CLL Type B, which currently does not require treatment and is pending revision of the next stage Fe.
