A 56-year-old male patient, resident in Olmué (Region of Valparaiso), with a history of chronic allergic rinitis since youth and fungal rhinosinusitis diagnosed and treated with oral fluconazole endoscopically.
She presented with a picture of nasal and sword discharge, abundant yellowish color and bad odor, with posterior discharge, headache and decreased smell.
A computed axial tomography (CAT) of the sinuses showed thickening of the right frontal mucosa and thickening of the sinus mucosa maxillary and ethmnasal sinuses ipsilateral.
CT of the paranasal sinuses with mucosal thickening of the right forntal sinus.
CT scan of the paranasal sinuses with diffuse asymptomatic cells and right sinuses
CT scan of the paranasal sinuses with diffuse asymptomatic right maxillary sinus.
Surgery was performed that included eradication of endonasal lesions, wide right ethmectomy and middle meatus with Caldwell-Luc approach. The patient was sent for endoscopic examination to ensure that abundant cleaning of the right maxillary material was achieved.
Bacterial cultures were all negative.
Direct microscopic examination with 20% KOH and Gomori-G staining revealed abundant hyphae septate at a 45° dichotomic angle.
Presence of hyphae in dichotomic angle.
Gomori-G.▁~~~ Signature.
40X.
In Sabouraud agar cultures Curvularia sp.
The patient was treated with itraconazole, 400 mg capsules a day for six months and inhaled corticosteroids.
Emerged with good clinical response.
He is currently asymptomatic and performing all his usual activities.
Identification of the species Mucin samples were collected on Sabouraud agar at 27 and 37°C, obtaining philamentous dark▁grey colonies in all cultures, with a total of 50 grams per day.
5 days after the onset of symptoms.
Afterwards, they were placed in corn flour agar and water agar with wheat straw at 25°C for 10 days.
Macroscopy: the colonies were of a tertile-shaped aspect with a cotton-like center, dark gray on the opposite side and black on the reverse, with abundant dry conidia.
Microscopy revealed dematia hi, coni-diiophores more or less, central conidia more central conidia longer than the other cells, with 3 x these cells measuring 28 μm and 45 x these cells.
Macroconidia with a longer central cell, with 3-5 seizures.
Lactophenol staining with cotton blue
100X.
The above description coincides with the species Curvularia inaequalis (Shear) Boedijn.
