Personal history A 63-year-old male patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus and partial seizures in 2006 treated with lamotrigine.
He was a missionary in Peru for several years up to one year before his admission.
He was admitted in January 2008 to Neurology due to instability, performing a cranial magnetic resonance imaging in which a triventricular hydrocephalad due to obstruction of the aquela acquitous valve of the peritoneal cavity was observed.
Cerebrospinal fluid examination revealed▁lymphocytic inflammatory▁exudate (90 leukocytes with 80% mononuclear cells and 54 g/dL glucose).
Current disease The patient came back in September 2008 due to persistent symptoms.
He had gait instability and ataxia, along with nausea, vomiting and decreased strength in the lower limbs of one month of evolution, as well as fever up to 38oC since the previous week.
He did not report any other symptoms to be highlighted.
Physical examination revealed no pathological findings.
Neurological examination revealed bilateral diplopia and generalized decrease in strength in lower limbs.
There were no meningeal signs or dysmetria.
▁Complementary findings The blood count, coagulation and biochemical parameters determined in blood were within normal limits.
As for the cerebrospinal fluid biochemistry, extracted by lumbar puncture, 20 leukocytes/μL (40% polymorphonuclear, 60% mononuclear), 48 g/dL glucose and 106 mg/dL protein were detected.
A new magnetic resonance imaging determined the existence of an increase in the entire ventricular system and transmissive emptying of the fluid.
After the administration of contrast, the diagnostic possibility of sickle cell disease was suggested.
In the previous admission, cultures for bacteria and mycobacteria of the cerebrospinal fluid were performed, with PCR for mycobacteria, culture for detection of fungal infections in fresh samples and serology for Trypanosoma cruzi.
All these tests were negative.
Blood serology for Blastomyces dermatomyces, Coccidioides immitis and Histo capsulatum was completed, which were negative, and positive for Paraplasmaitidis brasilensis.
Parasitides brasilensis PCR in cerebrospinal fluid was negative.
Serology against HIV was negative.
Diagnostic test PCR for Histoplasma capsulatum in cerebrospinal fluid: positive.
Clinical case Chronic meningitis due to Histoplasma capsulatum.
Before remission, microbiological results were added, and due to the possibility of infection associated with the ventriculoperitoneal shunt, empirical treatment with vancomycin and meropenem was initiated, without the objective of a tuberculous form of
After positive microbiological tests for Histoplasma capsulatum, treatment with liposomal amphotericin B (300 mg daily) was started for four weeks, with improvement of the symptoms and neurological changes of the fever.
During the treatment she presented mild neurotoxicity, which resolved at the end of the treatment.
After amphotericin withdrawal, itraconazole was initiated orally for eleven months.
During this period, several control lumbar punctures were performed, with progressive improvement of all parameters.
After six months with itraconazole, she had five leukocytes (95% mononuclear), 88 g/dL protein and 54.6 g/dL glucose.
Histoplasma PCR was negative.
A control CT scan was performed in July 2009, in which active hydrocephalia was observed, requiring valve replacement.
After the end of treatment with itraconazole in January 2010, the patient remains asymptomatic and has no recurrence data.
