Anamnesis A 33-year-old male patient with type 1 diabetes mellitus managed by insulin pump as the only relevant past medical history.
The patient was urgently treated for pruritic lesions in palms of both hands of 3 days of evolution, with subsequent appearance in soles of feet and perioral area.
The previous week she had suffered from an infectious condition of the upper respiratory tract with febricula that began to treat 5 days earlier with Az, Acetylcysteine and Paracetamol.
Reinterrupting the patient affirms having had contact for a short time with a student, school partner of her daughter, who presented lesions in the same distribution.
The patient's daughter did not present any skin lesion or clinical infectious disease.
Physical manifestations The patient presents erythematous-violaceous macules with poorly defined borders and confluent appearance in palms and soles of hands and feet.
On the back of the feet, the extensor region of both forearms and the perioral region, papulovesicles are observed, some of them in crusted phase, based on erythematous plaques.
Currently, there are no lesions in the oral, conjunctival or genital mucosa.
No adenopathies were found and the rest of the physical examination was normal.
▁Complementary punches were sent to the microbiology service for detection of enterovirus by PCR (taken with swabs after weaning the crust of one of the lesions of the forearm)
Although the PCR of enterovirus used is specific for cerebrospinal fluid, the test is positive.
Histopathological study with hematoxylin-eosin revealed a bullous skin lesion re-epithelialized with▁epidermal necrosis.
Nonspecific pathological results and clinical suspicion are referred biopsy material for molecular study of enterovirus (Kit Entherpex, which studies coxsakie is also positive and together).
Diagnosis Hand-foot-mouth disease in an adult patient.
Treatment The following regimens were used: Betamethasone valerate/Gentamicin sulfate 1 mg/g cream, once daily for 7 days.
Patient attended follow-up at 15 days with complete resolution of lesions.
He also reported a good evolution of the catarrhal condition, and was completely asymptomatic at that time.
During this period her daughter has not developed any▁dermatological or clinical infectious lesion.
