A 14-year-old male Pakistani who comes for a fever of 39oC, odynophagia and dry cough of three weeks that does not respond to empirical antibiotic treatment (amoxicillin-clavulanic acid) or
PA: He lived in Pakistan up to 4 months prior to admission.
Ta: 38.7oC.
TA: 90/34.
130 bpm.
Sat O2 99%.
Skin lesions.
No meningeal signs.
CA: rhythmic tones, not murmurs or frictions.
PA: good ventilation.
The abdomen was painless and the hepatomegaly was not painful.
ENT: no findings.
Mobile laterocervical adenopathies < 1 cm in diameter.
▁Complementary tests: Blood count 7,100 leu (70%N), Hb 10.8 HTC 30%, Platelets 98,000, PCR 40.
Biochemistry: sodium 131, AST and ALT normal; Monosticon negative, urine sdo: normal and chest X-ray showed no pathological findings.
Abdominal ultrasound: moderately enlarged liver globally, with normal and homogeneous echogenicity parenchyma without focal lesions.
Come with normal caliber door.
Marked stenosis is enlarged in approximately 15.5 cm.
Differential diagnosis: 1) fever in the unfocused traveler.
2) Non-focal fever with respiratory symptoms.
Admission diagnosis: Febrile syndrome without focus.
Pathological studies: uroculture, hemoculture, coprocultive and fecal incontinence, chest and abdomen X-ray, ECG and Mantoux were negative.
Neck ultrasound: ganglion and/or small adenopathies on both sides of the neck in the upper portion of both chains and carotid▁intima and submaxillary, nonspecific, probably chronic inflammatory areas.
TTE: No signs of endocarditis.
Serology was negative for different microorganisms.
Crown drop: Direct vision: Hematitis parasitized per 100: 0.33%.
PCR Plasmodium: Plasmodium vivax positive.
In the first 72 hours after admission, a control blood count was performed, which detected an increase in the platelet count that already presented: Hb 8 dl/ml, 3600 leu, 85,000
It was diagnosed by the microbiology service of infection by Plamodium vivax, being confirmed by the reference hospital.
Treatment was initiated with Quinine IV and proguanyl-atovaccine PO in the ICU.
After receiving treatment the clinical and analytical improvement was objective, negativizing parasitemia index, we proceeded to hospital discharge and monitoring by C. Ext internal medicine and tropical medicine unit of reference hospital.
Final diagnosis: Uncomplicated malaria.
Plasmodium vivax infection.
