This is a 16-year-old adolescent from the urban area of the municipality of Útica (Cundinamarca), a high school student, mixed race, who consulted for a consistent sensation of dry fever last two days of evolution.
The system review was negative.
The patient was treated with acetaminophen and amoxicillin without improvement.
The clinical history was not relevant.
The patient reported the presence of horses, cats and dogs in the drinking area located in the peridomicile.
She suffered from arthropod bites or travels to other regions in the last month. At hospital admission, the patient was in acceptable general condition, hydrated, with a temperature of 37 °C adenoids and moist mucosa
No skin rash or neurological deficit were observed.
The rest of the physical examination was normal.
The patient was kept under observation with a diagnosis of acute viral laryngitis and treatment with acetaminophen and intravenous fluids was initiated.
In the initial laboratory tests, it was found: 4.5 leukocytes per 109/L (neutrophils, 65.2 %; lymphocytes, 30.2 %); platelets, 173.000/mm3; hemoglobin, 16.8 g/dl,
After 12 hours of admission, leukopenia (2.8 leukocytes per 109/L; neutrophils, 48.3%; lymphocytes, 44.3 %) and thrombocytopenia (platelets, 145,000/mm3) were found in the patient's condition.
At this time, the patient remained in acceptable general conditions, with no changes in physical examination, hydrated and afflicted.
Due to the clinical picture at admission, the area of origin and leukopenia associated with thrombocytopenia, as evidenced in the clinical manifestations of dengue fever control, a clinical suspicion of dengue without warning signs was determined.
The patient was hospitalized and managed with intravenous fluids, antipyretics and infected blood parkts with dengue fever every 12 hours.In three cases, the differential diagnosis of dengue fever was considered as the fifth cause of dengue fever in the area.
The patient was hospitalized for six days until resolution of both leukopenia and thrombocytopenia was observed.
During the same period, the patient presented an acceptable general condition, except for the presence of nausea without vomiting in the last two days of hospitalization, which required metoclopramide.
No new febrile peaks, changes in physical examination or hemorrhagic manifestations were documented.
It was then decided to discharge the patient, with follow-up appointment by external consultation after 15 days.
During the follow-up appointment (15 days later) a new serum sample was taken to confirm the diagnosis as a stage of convalescence of congenital malformations.
The following results were observed: IgM for dengue negative and significant elevation of titers against R. felis (difference of four or more titers between the acute phase sample and the convalescence).
The results suggested the diagnosis of flea-borne spotted fever.
