Location of consultation Cervical tumor and fever.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Non-RAMS anamnesis.
Cardiac apexoma in the intervened childhood that was not found.
Mixed cephalea.
Unusual treatment.
We report the case of a 21-year-old man who consulted his primary care physician for a two-day history of bulloma in the right cervical area associated with general▁malaise and high fever (up to 41o).
She says that everything is increasing.
He denied previous trauma.
No dysphagia or dyspnea.
suspected infectious mononucleosis, treatment was prescribed, laboratory tests and the MNI test were requested.
He came to the hospital emergency department three days later due to high fever and pain in the right cervical region where he was admitted for study.
BEG.
BHP.
Eupneic.
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
CRF was normal, with a rhythmic heart rate of 80 bpm.
On examination of the area, a painful, red, right cervical tumor was observed, with limitation of neck mobility, which caused an abscess.
The apex of the left lower jaw angle was caudal and descending to the middle third of the neck.
No trismus, teeth in good condition at first sight, there is no exit of purulent material or signs of sialolithiasis.
ENT without▁exudate.
Abdomen without peritonitis.
It is valued by maxillofacial surgery that, in view of the clinical and pathological findings, it is not a pathology with surgical approach at that time.
Summary complementary tests** Analytical with complete blood count without leukocytosis and normal red blood cell series.
Biochemistry did not show alterations, but transaminases did not show elevation.
INR Coagulation 1.22.
Thyroid hormones** Peripheral blood smear: negative for mononucleosis, positive for bacterial infection.
** Chest X-ray: normal, with thicker threads.
** Negative sputum culture and AFB.
** Negative serology for Q fever, HBV, HCV, HAV, Brucella, HIV, Borrelia.
** Mantoux with negative Booster.
** Transthoracic echocardiography without intrathoracic mass, normal.
** Cervical CT: asymmetric thickening of homogeneous density suggestive of CMD/infection.
In depth, a laterocervical polyadenopatic process is observed, with lymphadenopathy up to 16mm.
** Chest and abdominal CT: mild hepatomegaly.
There was no lymph node involvement in the study.
** Adenopathic fibrotic tissue without relevant changes.
A 21-year-old family and community approach was used. The patient had a healthy parent and brother.
Work as a computer programmer.
She did not report any history of infection in the family or TB.
He has two cats and a dog for years, well vaccinated.
Clinical judgement (problem finding, differential diagnosis) Polyadenopathic syndrome due to nonspecific reactive lymphadenitis.
Location of Kikuchi-Fujimoto syndrome.
Infectious pyomyositis is a common manifestation of congenital melanoma.
Plan of action and evolution The evolution was favorable, the patient was admitted for study for 7 days and referred improvement with antibiotics and antipyretics administered.
There was also a decrease in the lesion until it was resolved at the end of her stay in the plant.
Ten months later, the patient suffered the same clinical picture but on the contralateral side, on this occasion a PET was performed which revealed new adenopathy supra and infradiaphragmatic with a benign histology.
The diagnostic process was extended for 2 years because it is a diagnosis of exclusion.
Currently the patient has again requested an appointment with his family doctor for the appearance of a new axillary lymphadenopathy.
This pending laboratory tests, abdominal and axillary ultrasound.
