Consultation note: Gonalgia bilaterala and stiffness of the joint.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Anamnesis: contraindicated NSAIDs for gastric ulcer.
Non-smoker.
Don't drink.
Hernia discal L4-L5.
IQ: a hysterectomy, turbinates, left knee prosthesis in November 2012.
A 76-year-old male patient came to his primary care physician due to a fallen mood and pain and difficulty in▁bending his right knee for months.
In 2012, he underwent left knee surgery due to gotrosis and began rehabilitation strengthening weight on the right knee.
She tells that one day she feels general▁malaise described as &#8722;latigation throughout the body, a moment from which she begins with contracture in both knees presenting them flexed and with a crooked gait since then.
Gradually, the force is losing to the point the patient begins to use a wheel.
Pain is severe and prevents nighttime rest.
No loss of consciousness, no motor loss, no sphincter alteration.
According to the family, the patient's depressive condition is important with spontaneous▁crying, suicidal ideation and abulia.
At this time, it was decided to consult the patient with mental health since the patient had not suffered any previously inherited disorders.
Physics BEG, affilia.
Higher functions preserved
Normal language and visual field.
PINLA.
MOEC Normal cranial nerves.
Motor balance in the upper limbs was preserved and symmetrical.
Loops closed and alveoli closed.
No loss of muscle mass.
No clear silence.
Change muscle tone with distraction maneuvers.
Hyperalgesia of the right thigh.
There is flexion of the right knee of 45° with enormous difficulty for extension.
20o flexion on the left knee.
Laboratory tests were normal.
CT skull showed no significant alterations.
Neurophysiological study of conduction showed normal values.
No denervative activity was found in the explored muscles (phasculations isolated in twins).
Bone scan: pathological increase in the activity of the ticks compatible with possible chondropathy.
Degenerative changes.
L1▁crushing.
MRI of the spine (cannot be performed): cervical myelopathy.
Degenerative signs with numerous protrusions.
Knee MRI showed severe gotrosis right and, to a lesser degree, internal femorotibial compartment with internal meniscopathy without meniscus rupture.
Family and community approach The patient is the father of two healthy children and currently lives with his wife.
Retired entrepreneur.
Living with a dog.
Clinical judgement (problem-listed, differential diagnosis) Fracture of flexion of both knees and alteration of gait of psychogenic origin.
Cervical myelopathy underwent surgery.
Idiopathic Parkinson’ s disease.
Plan of action and evolution During the course of 5 years, the patient is assessed by traumatology, rehabilitation, pain unit, neurosurgery and neurology for worsening of the condition without reaching an etiological diagnosis.
Treatments are carried out with botulinum toxin, corticosteroids and anesthetics with temporary relief but maintain joint stiffness despite treatment.
Traumatology decides to reduce general anesthesia, but in the intervention does not include the flexion of the knee joint) and in the left knee (operated) it has a 30o flexion.
In the MRI of the spine, a cervical myelopathy without symptoms in the upper limbs was observed in follow-up by neurosurgery, which after years was decided to perform the intervention.
It has no incidents.
In one of the neurology consultations, bilateral resting tremor was observed in the upper limbs with mild associated stiffness, and a PF-SPECT was requested to rule out Parkinson's disease.
The study is pathological with decreased density of dopamine transporters, indicating the existence of nigrostriatal degeneration.
