This is a 26-year-old patient who was referred from the Mental Health Unit (MHU) for admission to a Palliative Care Unit (ICU).
Her psychiatric history included admission to the Brief Hospitalization Unit (BHU) in September 2016 (with 24 years) for 29 days with a clinical judgment at discharge of "Palmitazole diazepam treated with cannabis prior to treatment"
Since February 2017, monitoring also by clinical psychology and valued by social worker.
Its bi-level antecedents are characterized by currently living with its mother and grandmother in the family home.
Graduates diplomacy in 2008.
In addition, he has an older sister, born in 1988 with whom he lived previously.
Manipulate good social network support.
Non-sentimental partner (former relationship of 7 years).
Studies up to 2nd year of High School (unconstrained) have a submarine course.
Sporadic work, such as waiter and paid "gamer", as mentioned.
He has no own income at present and is not civilly disabled.
Cannabis harmful use occurs from 18 years of age (3-5 "dogs" weekly) accompanied by moderate alcohol consumption, mainly during weekends.
He came along with his father to the initial interview for admission to the EMU.
The patient has had a torpid evolution, without remission of psychotic symptoms or cessation of cannabis use.
She has been living in her mother's house with partially unsatisfied functioning in relation to the fulfillment of schedules, however, she collaborates in domestic tasks and in the care of her grandmother.
According to the family member, he presents disorganized sleep habits, eating habits, activities, etc.
He also comments that many days the medication is not taken or is not taken correctly with respect to the regimen.
All this, the patient does not dislike it and argues with a sense of apathy.
No awareness of disease (I don't know anything) and think that stopping cannabis use will not give you any benefit.
Still, she accepts admission to the EMU as positive.
It spontaneously verifies the presence of "rare ideas" and sensory disturbance (which does not describe) without any kind of behavioral repercussion.
In the psychopathological examination carried out during the interview, the patient is conscious and oriented in time, space and person.
Good aspect and personal care in general.
Reaction properly to the interview
Pathway to mental illness and mental illness, although something is committed
She talks little about answering questions.
Language without alterations in form and structure of thought.
Non-psychotic symptoms in the foreground.
Hypothymia, anhedonia and partial abulia; it does not impress a major affective clinic.
Alteration in circadian rhythm.
Lovexia.
The olfactory and cenestian claims.
Proper functioning was observed in a paterno-filial relationship, although the patient refused to receive family visits except for her sister.
The objectives of admission proposed by the unit team with the patient are: Limiting the consumption of THC and establishing the relationship between this and the psychopathological clinic.
Achieve clinical stability.
Become aware of the disease
Start treatment with Clozapine.
Achieving good tolerance and adherence to treatment
NURSERY ATENTION PROCESS from nursing, assessment is performed at admission and subsequent patient care.
Assessment stage was performed according to M. Gordon functional patterns.
Pattern 1 – Perception and maintenance of health.
Good aspect and personal care in general.
The patient has difficulties following the medication regimen.
Uh, THC consumption.
Altered pattern.
Pattern 2 – Nutritional and metabolic.
Disturbed employment, usually prepared by the mother or grandmother in the house where she currently lives.
Adequate weight in relation to height.
In recent weeks, mealtimes have been disorganized.
Pattern 3 – Elimination.
Good intestinal transit.
Pattern 4 – exercise.
Until recently he was going three times a week to a gym in his neighborhood.
Most of the day is at home,▁watching TV or just lying in bed.
Altered pattern.
Pattern 5 – Sleep and rest
Poor conservation of biorhythms.
Disadjustment of hours of rest with tiredness and▁daytime sleepiness.
Altered pattern.
Pattern 6 – Cognitive and perceptual.
Aware and oriented in time, space and person.
Reaction properly to the interview
Pathway to mental illness and mental illness, although something is committed
Pattern 7 – Self-perception and self-concept.
The patient has doubts about the usefulness of admission to the unit.
Pattern 8 – Role and relationships.
Proper functioning was observed in a paterno-filial relationship, although the patient refused to receive family visits except for her sister.
Pattern 9 – Sexuality and reproduction.
She had a 7-year-old relationship with a girl who ended two years ago.
When asked, she does not mention that this has influenced the course of her disease.
Pattern 10 – Coping and stress tolerance.
During the interview, the patient shows signs of infection.
It does not agree very much with the admission, but it does not generate significant discomfort or anxiety as we comment.
Pattern 11 – Values and beliefs.
There are no data of interest regarding this pattern.
Diagnostic stage After assessment, we detected the following problems using the terminology of NANDA-II: 00079 Failure to comply with NIC. Failure to comply with the following medical standards: Failure to adopt the following health care management strategy: International Classification of actions 1697
Adding the patient to assume as much responsibility for their own self-care as possible.
To review strategies to control the medication regimen with the patient.
Observe the therapeutic effects of the medication on the patient.
00097 Objectivesudative Activities Deficit NOC: 1503 Social implication and its prohibitions 53 in leisure activities NIC Interventions: 4310 Activity therapy 5100 Potency60 between patient and social therapy
Annihilating the patient to develop relationships.
Focus on involvement in totally new interests.
Helping the patient to increase awareness of their strengths and limitations in communication with others.
Facilitate enthusiasm and planning future activities by the patient.
00198 Sleep disorder NOC Objectives: 0003 Rest. 0004 Sleep Interventions NIC: 2380 NIC: 2380 NOC Objectives: 5880 Relaxation pattern anxiety medication, Management of the patient according to medication
To determine the impact of medication use on the patient's lifestyle.
Search strategies to control side effects of drugs
00188 Trend to adopt risk behaviors for health NOC Objectives: 1603 Health-seeking behavior 1700 Beliefs on health 1902 Risk management Interdentification NIC: 5210 Biological risk behavior versus 5510 Iu
To identify typical coping strategies.
Planning for long-term follow-up of risk reduction strategies and activities.
Implementation and evaluation stages Since the beginning of their stay in the Nursing Unit commented on the stability of the clinic presented at admission.
Good attitude with health personnel and other patients, as well as good development of activities proposed in the unit.
At the psychopathological level refers to smell as a persistent olfactory smell that describes an unpleasant and strong odor; nevertheless, it does not cause distress or discomfort or interfere with daily functioning.
It also has preserved biorhythms.
Pharmacologically, treatment with Clozapine was started, reaching doses of 75 mg per day without significant side effects or pathological findings in complementary control tests.
