Consultation visit attended a 18-year-old male, referred from the Emergency Department with a diagnosis of probable psychotic episode.
Personal medical history: She had presented seizures with seizures during childhood due to an atrophic TBI.
The patient was treated with a 500 mgr/d dressing.
Consumer of weekend alcohol, and cannabis diary (from about 14 years old, at the time of going to the MHC consumed 6-7 servings a day).
Psychological/psychiatric history at 8 years of age had been seen a few times by the Child Mental Health Team of the CSM, since it had low school performance.
Family history Both parents reported anxious-depressive episodes: the father had been suffering from panic crisis for several years, and agoraphobia that affected her son with a mixed anxiety disorder SSRI; the mother reported a mild depressive episode three months ago.
There is no family history of psychotic symptoms.
Biology.▁~~~ It's the second of a slice of three.
His two brothers had a medical history of interest.
He had been a little restless boy, a bad student, and a fighter.
For a couple of years his behavior had improved, showing a much more intense emphasis.
She has a stable relationship with her partner and was working as a Scayolist in recent months.
Current episode The patient reports the onset of symptoms about a year and a half ago.
Remember that she progressively began to feel "extrait, emptiness... I felt weird, I saw it weird, because of the emptiness she had inside...".
He was actively talking about being sad, labile, distressed, unable to enjoy the activities that had previously been fun to him "because I was sad because I was empty."
It also presents a feeling of irritation and episodes of aggression towards objects, which are apparently unmotivated.
This clinical picture had worsened in the last 2-3 months prior to the emergency department visit.
From that time on, he also refers to "extrainee feelings...as if the environment were different".
It has been feeling white from the perspective of others "in a rare way".
"By the street, I looked at people if they looked at me... People looked at me with a bad roll, to laugh... If someone laughed at me, I spend the whole day thinking about it".
He recognizes the absurdity of some of his thoughts: "I was going on the street, I was probably looking at someone and I knew what they thought of me, by looking, by gesture...
In recent days, it has been observed by strangers, and has noticed that people often speak about it.
In a non-structured way, he points to a certain idea of prejudice.
His girlfriend attributes a special quality that gives him well-being "it is as if my girlfriend carried my happiness...".
In the last few weeks, the family had begun to seriously worry about its behavioral change.
He▁barely left his friends, and saw himself shut up.
His work, however, was uneventful.
The mother highlights the progressive isolation and apathy of her child, as well as the feeling of sadness and dullness.
It does not indicate other behavioral changes, nor has it perceived changes in daily sleep or eating rhythms.
Psychopathological features At the time of the first visit the patient is conscious and oriented.
Their contact is scarcely resonant, blunt.
He has mild psychomotor slowing, complaining of lack of ability to concentrate. His face is prone to hypomymia, without presenting clinical signs of joint stiffness.
His speech is fluid, coherent, well structured, centered on a void and extra-crime sensation content.
His spirit is convincing with his experiences, showing anguish at the same time that apathy and abulia.
It presents a referential ideation and a vaguely structured loss.
She denied sensory disturbance.
The presence of thought reading phenomena is not clear, but it has presented experiences of derealization.
In the last weeks he had lost weight.
Her sleep is fragmented and denies self- or hetero-aggressive ideation.
To improve the severity of benzodia in the emergency department, atypical antipsychotic was initiated (risperidone 3 mg/d) and adjusted on her first visit to the MHC to 6 mg/d, adding
During the first months of its evolution, it was not all the satisfactory that was intended.
Managing pharmacological treatment practically disappears the delusional idea and the probable phenomena of thought reading.
However, to a lesser extent this persisted the feeling of extraneous reception to oneself and its environment.
Although he was still functioning within a certain normality (he kept his work, remained with his friends...) his contact was still poor, scarcely resonant, attorneyed.
He also kept his complaint of lack of concentration, lack of initiative and impulse, amotivation and apathy "... sometimes I feel like I'm slow, without conversation, slow...".
Trend toward passive social isolation.
▁Throughout this time he had maintained the daily consumption of hatchets (4-5 pigs/day).
In a second phase, work is focused on abstinence from cannabis use, maintaining lower doses of risperidone (3 mg/d).
One month after the absolute cessation of consumption, she began to be more dismissed.
Your contact has improved a lot (stratified by the family, who sees you almost recovered).
He still maintains occasional sensations of extra pain, but his social world has reactivated.
He is motivated and has started new training and work plans.
Although he does not spontaneously refer to it if he/she still has a certain clinical manifestation, although they are not having a functional repercussion in his/her daily life.
One year after abstinence, the patient is fully recovered, telling himself and his family.
You are no longer taking treatment (looked on your own when you experience side effects).
She has a stable relationship with her partner, is still in contact with her friends, has changed work and has future projects (including the delivery of house keys).
She no longer complains of extracurrence or emptiness.
Contact has been normalized, with complaints of concentration failures appearing as a bulging.
Enjoy your activities, including apathy.
