Primary Care Centre located in Bogotá, Colombia.
Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) 51-year-old male patient with no relevant past medical history who came to consultation to renew his wife's medication.
We reviewed previous laboratory tests of this patient and we determined that he had leukocytosis with left shift in two previous laboratory tests and we indicated repeat the laboratory tests.
The patient is currently completely asymptomatic.
No symptoms B.
In the last year, she has had two episodes of gouty arthritis in the first right foot phalanx resolved with NSAIDs and colchicine.
In September 2015 a complete blood count was performed with 16650/μL leukocytes to neutrophils▁exudates (13020/μL), in March 2016 they decreased to 12160/μL (neutrophils 8950/μL).
Physical activity: TA 120 98% Ca aa FC 70 FR 16 normal oral health.
No pseudoaneurysms are located in the axillary region or in the inguinal region.
Cardiopulmonary arrest: Rhythmic tones without murmurs, conserved vesicular murmur without overlapping sounds.
Abdomen: blando, depresible, non-painful to constipation does not manifest as masses or visceromegaly.
Additional tests (June 2017): - CBC: 450 leukocytes (neutropenic leukocytes) (neutropenic fever - 11150, basophils -μL), residualDH 3600/μL,
Normal protein - Peripheral blood smear: leukocytosis with left shift: myelocytes 3% metamyelocytes 5% fallen 8% tested positive for HBV viral antigen IgM negative for subarachnoid hepatitis B virus IgM positive for HBV viral antigen 19 negative for other viral antigen -
M is completely engaged in the care of his wife and always attends our consultation for gestates care of her.
My tutor and I went periodically to value his wife at home.
M is a little consultant and, despite the numerous occasions in which we have consulted his wife, he hardly has open consultation sheets.
Your concern and your daily effort are in the care of your wife.
It undervalues your health status and your own problems.
M is a compliant and collaborating patient, but sometimes there is a lack of extra blood collection or appointments because it anticipates the care of his wife to his own health.
It is extremely complex to address psychological issues with respect to the recent diagnosis of their disease because for him it is not a problem, for him it would only be a problem that his wife had passed something, although it has been a bit disconnected for years.
Clinical judgement (list of problems, referential diagnosis) Leukocytosis with neutrophilia maintained to study.
Psychosocial problems of the primary caregiver patient with great dependence Plan of Action obtained results in peripheral blood smear and sustained leukocytosis, the patient was referred to the Hematology and Hemotherapy consultation.
The patient was admitted to the Hematology and Hemotherapy Service and was diagnosed with Chronic Myeloid Leukemia with positive chromosomes.
In November 2017 chemotherapy was initiated, Hydrea was prescribed at a dose of 1000 mg alternating with 500 mg as, although asymptomatic, the white blood cell count had risen to 46480/4000μL with a platelet count of 84480/μL.
In addition, they prescribed allopurinol 300 mg in the form of consolidation and hydration abundantly due to the hyperuricemia that it presented due to cellular lysis (affective acid 8).
At the review date, the white blood cell formula was maintained at similar levels, modifying treatment and initiating nilotinib 300 mg c/ 12 hours.
The latter treatment is correctly implemented and has been effective.
The patient is currently asymptomatic and with a normal leukocyte formula: leukocytes 8700/μL neutrophils 6500/μL and platelets 30/μL.
