Anamnesis A 38-year-old woman, born in Ecuador, was referred for retreatment in Spain 12 years.
His personal history included: depressive disorder, mega-transverse C7 and tinnitus.
She was brought to the emergency department of our hospital for presenting generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
According to the description of a witness, the patient has suffered focal seizures with bucolingual automatisms, oculocefaction deviation to the left and subsequent generalization with tonic-clonic shakes.
The patient did not remember a history of infection or previous crises.
He describes a fluctuating holocraneal oppressive headache of one year of evolution, with little response to analgesic treatment, without vomiting or photo-sonophobia, which has been found to have cervical pathology.
Establishment of a clinical diagnosis of chronic hepatitis C.
Cadiorespiratory instability was normal.
Abdominal and extremities without alterations.
From the neurological point of view: conscious and oriented patient, Glasgow 4-5-6.
reactive light hair.
There are no signs of meningeal irritation.
Normal language
Normal cranial nerves.
Muscle strength and sensitivity were normal.
Osteotendinous present and symmetrical features.
Unchanged coordination
Bilateral plantar cutaneous flap.
Romberg negative.
Normal gait.
▁Complementary tests • Blood analysis: general biochemistry, blood count and hemostasis without alterations.
• Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 72 bpm, with no changes in repolarization.
• Chest X-ray: no changes in acute evolution.
• Cranial computed tomography (CT): a well-defined frontal cystoid lesion with a small adjacent calcification suggestive of parasitic lesion.
Left parietal and right frontal calcification.
• Electroencephalogram: normal bioelectrical activity, no▁epileptiform changes were observed.
• Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): normal size and morphology of the ventricular system.
Inside the frontal▁horn, a 7 mm parasitarian cyst with a visible scolex inside, without contrast enhancement, was observed.
Free-base tanks.
Correct vascular structures, permeable dural venous sinuses.
Nodular lesion in the right frontal region of 15 mm in diameter, probably between the medial circumv and inferior circumv.
It presents enhancement suggesting inflammatory changes due to destruction of the clot.
Other small cystoid images of 5 to 6 mm are also identified, one in a posterior situation of the right Sylvian fissure and another two in the high posterior parietal region.
No changes in diffusion-weighted sequence were observed.
Parasitic cyst of 7 mm with visible scolex inside.
It was removed from the upper posterior parietal region.
Nodular lesion in the right frontal region of 15 mm in the medial circumv and inferior circumv.
• Normal eye fund.
Diagnosis, Neurocysticercosis.
Symptomatic epilepsy.
Treatment Antiepileptic drug therapy with levetiracetam was initiated 1,000 mg every 12 hours, in addition to the cysticid treatment with albendazole at a dose of 15 mg/kg/day for one month and oral dexamethasone.
The patient remains asymptomatic and seizure free during his stay in the Neurology Department.
After discharge, the patient was followed up in the Neurology outpatient clinic by performing a follow-up MRI, with no new findings or complications.
