A 40-year-old male who came to the Care Center for Drug Addicts for presenting a consumption of "15 to 30 pigs/day", who wants to quit due to the negative influence that can exert on his daughters.
Personal history Physicians: 5▁tympanoplasty surgeries, follow-up by a physician with insomnia and migraines "from always".
Enuresis until 13-14 years old.
Toxicological: refers to the beginning of cannabis use at 16 years of age in relation to the pressure of his group of friends and his difficulty for social relationships.
Since then, she has been consuming without periods of abstinence.
The dose has always been higher than 15 pigs per day.
It does not consume or have consumed other toxic substances.
Family history Padre operated on for gastric ulcer; mother with multiple allergies with crisis and▁dermatological symptoms throughout life; healthy, independent sister.
Spause from 21 years old, healthy, non-consumer, two daughters of 7 and 2 years old.
I wouldn't always be interested in her, without separation from her parents 11 years ago, since then she has no relationship with her father; the mother describes her as very demanding, disqualifying, very destructive and controlling.
It is described as a very obsessive person: you dressed in the same order, you need to repeat phrases before leaving home, everything has ordered and controlled, very demanding with yourself and others.
Start the industrial engineer career that abandons and passes to telecommunications that also abandons, mounting its own computer company with great success.
History of the illness tells us to have tried to abandon the consumption several times without getting it, because it becomes very anxious, irritable, bad humour and cannot sleep.
He thinks that the dog now helps him with the discomfort he feels, since for seven years he has begun to feel low in spirits, increasingly aptic, without wanting to do anything, or to work.
He has abandoned all his social relations and now only leaves home when he goes with the woman or her daughters, he has also left his feelings since they do not attract or entertain him.
He has gradually lost the company which was his own for abandoning her, and has ruined, and has even lost his own house.
The woman starts working outside the house and he is responsible for domestic work, but everything costs him a lot of work "it is a very big sacrifice"; I cannot concentrate and all day she gets very guilty, she knows how to make a lot of death.
His spirit is getting worse and he's very scared.
Due to the importance of the symptoms and their long evolution, the patient is treated with an antidepressant and a hypnotic.
The patient continues to consume and has the same mood.
After the second month she achieves abstinence and after 15 days of getting it begins to improve her mood, starts to be active and think about her future, starting to work and withdrawing depressive symptoms, continuing to withdraw the abstinence itself.
Diagnostic judgement The possibility that the patient had a depressive disorder comorbid to substance use should be evaluated, in the strictest sense of the term cannabis seated a mood disorder not characterized by the appearance of two affective disorders of abstinence subject in a
