Impossibility due to multiple attempts in public and private care, outpatient detoxification from cannabis use disorder as the main diagnosis.
Sociodemographic data Male, 33 years old.
Smart.
Six years ago she hasn't worked, without▁perceiving any subsidia.
He lives with his brother and parents, owners of the house.
Family history Around 62 years old, with arthrosis.
A 57-year-old man with anxiety.
A 30-year-old brother was addicted to cannabis and alcohol.
Personal history Open clinical history at the Drug Addiction Care Center (DCC) in the area in 1996.
In 1997 he was admitted to a general hospital for heroin detoxification.
He received methadone since 1999 in the DKA; he has taken 170 mg/day for two years.
In 1998 it was only a couple of months in a Teraptica Community; it abandoned the program.
Both the doctor who leads the DKA and the private psychiatrist who also recommends hospitalization suggest the possible existence of borderline or schizoid personality disorder.
Medical-surgical history Benign prostatic hyperplasia.
Current severe cannabis sickness, main diagnosis of the case.
Smoke 20 pigs a day since age 17.
His daily life is spent at home, without doing anything; ask the street only to get the money he needs.
- severe nicotine dependence since 17 years of age with 20 cigarettes per day.
- moderate benzodiazepine deficiency for three years.
At present, it has reduced the dose of alprazolam to 3 tablets/day of 2 mg. Opioid hypersensitivity (heroin) in maintenance therapy with methadone agonist.
Nine years ago, heroin has not been injected.
- Total remission of cocaine snapy and injected years ago.
Symptoms Insomnia, anxiety, depression and apathy ("asmotivation syndrome")
Abstinence episodes were subjectively severe, with intense craving for consumption and severe physical discomfort, all of which were described as unbearable.
Seizures include cannabis withdrawal syndrome and methadone withdrawal syndrome.
Previous personality without diagnosis in Axis II is confirmed at discharge, with normal functioning in stable cannabis abstinence.
Socio-familial factors without apparent significance: stable parental couple, with a middle-class accommodation.
Overprotection.
Physical stable inappetence and low weight: 64 kg (height 181 cm) psychopathological diagnosis Cooperative, oriented, anxious, depressed (I don't want to live), ambivalent to abstinence
No sensory disturbance or autolytic ideation.
On admission, parents regretted seeing the patient almost always in bed smoking dog.
The patient was discharged home after 16 days of treatment.
The decrease had to be slowed down for the case, so detoxification lasted twenty days, when it is usually eleven days or less.
Tremors, sweating, tachycardia and nausea intercurrent with withdrawal anxiety during the first half of hospital stay.
Blood and urine analysis with serology and thyroid function: mild anemia attributable to low weight.
Electrocardiogram showed diffuse polarization disorder, with no indication for treatment.
Affective behavioural anxiety, lability and ambivalence during the first two weeks of hospitalization.
▁Exposure to individual interviews (psychiatrist, psychologist, social worker, nurse) and the specific psychosocial rehabilitation program of dual pathology (group therapy, psychoeducation on relapse prevention and medication, relaxation, other activities).
Epicrisis Preliminary▁assimilation of knowledge and skills for stable cannabis abstinence and non-prescribed▁benzodiazepines.
He normally▁assured that Teraptica (CT) would be sent to the Community but that it would be sent shortly before discharge.
Coordination In person and by telephone, the healthcare team was coordinated with the parents and TC professionals contacted during hospitalization.
Continuity of care Detoxified and with clinical improvement, at discharge she received a scheduled follow-up visit at the derivative CAD.
Treatment Methadone: equal dose (170 mg/day); paroxetine 20 mg: 1 compr./day; oxcarbazepine 600 mg: 2 compr./day; levochlorpromazine 25 mg
