A 5-year-old patient who came to the Primary Care Emergency Department (PED) accompanied by a request for treatment for her parents with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (AD), "that the child could take several days"
Among the antecedents, one AD stood out, treated with emollients and moisturizers, almost daily, and with pharmacological treatment with corticosteroids only in the sprouts, so they assumed the normal evolution.
On physical examination, the patient presented numerous skin lesions, worsened by scratching, in the face, inguinal region, hands and feet, in the form of excoriations, eczema,▁papules and erosions.
Personal and family history of diseases related to atopy and severe pruritus were found in the consultation.
Both parents also manifested the appearance of pruritus of a few days of evolution, which appeared to have been in the field at the end of the previous week, where they saw many pin ionizations.
The mother also reported allergic antecedents to grasses, olives and mites.
Interdigestive manifestations of pruritus in all family members, it was decided to examine the parents, scarce excoriations arms with impingement folds, especially in the father, abdomen, waist, inguinal area.
After the suspicion of some parasitosis and characteristic lesions pointing to the diagnosis of scabies, a treatment with topical 5% permethrin cream and oral antihistamines was recommended, and the patient was reevaluated.
They reported a clear and rapid improvement from the same day of treatment.
Follow-up was carried out by the Family Doctor and the Pediatrician, aiming at the disappearance of the symptoms and the improvement of the lesions.
It was also recommended to follow up close contacts, if they manifested signs of withdrawal.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUEBAS In this case, the presence of pruritic lesions throughout the family was sufficient to raise the suspicion of something more than one AD in the child.
Signs indicating diagnosis and lack of evidence or techniques to confirm meningitis in the SUAP were established. Pharmacological treatment was initiated after observing some lesions compatible with the diagnosis of scabies.
Successful and rapid therapeutic response served as a good measure to confirm the disease.
