We report the case of a 45-year-old male, professional▁sailor.
He smokes more than 15 packs/year and has no drug allergies or relevant medical history.
Do not perform home treatments.
The only antecedent was a trip to Dakar (Senegal) for more than 6 months.
She came to the emergency room with a 5 days history of evening fever of up to 40oC.
In the anamnesis, the patient presented left glue pain radiating to the ipsilateral lower limb and to the inguinal region.
Do not remember previous pelvic trauma.
There is no respiratory, digestive or genitourinary symptoms.
She denied parenteral drug abuse or having had risky sexual intercourse.
It does not contemplate contact with animals or ingestion of non pasteurized foods.
During the emergency physical examination, the patient was affected by pain, although he was conscious and oriented and cooperative.
She was well hydrated and infused.
The basic constants stood out for being anodyne: temperature 35.4oC, blood pressure 122/88 mmHg, heart rate 62 bpm and saturation of 98% O2 with room air.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation and abdominal examination showed no pathological signs.
The examination of the gluteal region revealed severe pain to the left apex palpation and passive mobilization of the left lower limb.
The standing was partially limited by pain.
Lassègue and Bragard maneuvers were negative.
No cutaneous inflammatory signs such as erythema, edema or local hyperthermia were observed.
Left renal percussion was negative.
The apexification showed no nodules or areas of fluctuation.
Blood analysis revealed nonspecific signs of systemic inflammation.
Blood count showed neutrophilia without leukocytosis with 88.4% neutrophils, 9.7% lymphocytes and a slight thrombocytosis of 470,000 ud./μL.
Biochemistry showed a high C-reactive protein (CRP) of 42.69 mg/L.
Both the renal function parameters and those obtained were within the normal range.
The plain radiography of the lumbosacra region showed a spinal rectification at the lumbar level without other relevant signs.
Given the persistence of the patient, the exuberant of the clinic (fever, gluteal pain and functional impotence in walking) and the findings in the high diagnostic tests (neutrophilia with CRP) was decided to complete.
During hospitalization, a computed tomography (CT) with intravenous contrast of the abdomen and pelvis was requested. The CT showed a collection for upper muscular abscesses of 32 x 16 x 53 mm in the thickness of the left iliac muscle (left area).
The lesion showed peripheral enhancement, imprinted in the adjacent pelvic fat and was multiloculated.
Blood tests performed after the day of admission showed a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (GSR) of 38 mm/h and a CRP significantly increased compared to the previous determination mg/L.
Although blood count and coagulation were normal, iron metabolism parameters were altered: ferritin 602.7 mg/mL, serum iron 36.1 μg/dL and transferrin 189 mg/dL.
Alkaline dyssynthetic disorder (ALCS) is a rare disorder characterized by a total bilirubin dL (GA) of 0.81 mg/dL, a glycotransglutaminase (GGT) of 302 IU/L.
Renal function parameters, serum creatinine and autoimmunity markers were within the normal range.
The termination of the HLA B27 antigen was negative.
Serology for HIV, HAV, HBV, HCV, Epstein&#146;s anomaly (VEB),▁Cytomegalovirus (CMV), Brucella spp.
and the syphilis ragenic antibody were equally negative.
Given the clinical suspicion and support of additional tests it was decided to start empirical antibiotic therapy in venoclysis with cloxacillin 1 g every 6 hours and ceftriaxone 2 g every 24 hours.
Differential diagnosis The differential diagnosis focuses on the entities that primarily affect the sacroiliac joint in 3 major groups: inflammatory, degenerative and infectious.
In general, the inmatories present a clinical form characterized by morning stiffness and improvement with movement.
Ankylosing spondylitis usually presents with positivity in HLA B27 determination and has a subacute or chronic course.
The presence of a negative HLA B27 test and an acute evolution rule out this entity.
Juvenile spondyloarthropathy, like ankylosing spondylitis, usually has chronic manifestations and is HLA B27 positive.
Imaging techniques usually show signs of enthesitis of the sacroiliac muscles.
Our patient had a tapered collection of the iliac muscle in the left belly and a joint affection, more than the muscular entheses.
In reactive arthritis it is common to find joint inflammation with conjunctivitis or urethritis, symptoms that our patient did not report.
Psoriatic arthritis is very unlikely since the patient reported no history of cutaneous psoriasis.
As for enteropathic arthritis, during the diagnostic and therapeutic process the patient did not experience digestive symptoms, so this entity is also ruled out.
• Degenerative: due to the proximity of the sacroiliac joint with the lumbosacro trunk, injury to the superior gluteal and obturator nerves can mimic the pathology of this joint.
Lumbar disc herniation can also injure the course of the sciatic nerve, with consequent lumbar pain or lumbosciatalgia.
Sciatic nerve injury can occur with functional impotence of the affected lower limb and occasionally loss of sphincter control.
The patient had gluteal pain radiating to the left lower limb and to the inguinal region, not purely lumbar, with negative Lasègue and Bragard signs.
The differential diagnosis includes hip arthrosis.
Although it is an entity of advanced age, it can appear in young patients.
However, the symptoms are usually more severe and consistent in pain, joint stiffness and functional impotence of chronic evolution.
• Infectious: our patient had leukocytosis with neutrophilia, elevated CRP and fever, signs of infectious etiology.
Staphylococcus aureus is the causative agent most frequently involved in this type of clinical presentation.
It usually causes sacroiliac joint infection by dissemination.
Pseudomonas spp are the gram-negative microorganisms most frequently involved, although they are characteristic of immunosuppressed patients.
Other agents implicated are Brucella spp.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
The etiological identification is based on the positive growth in microbiological cultures.
Salmonella spp.
it usually manifests with gastrointestinal symptoms as the most common form of presentation, although multiple conditions have been described.
The initial clinical evolution was poor despite empirical antibiotic therapy.
The patient maintained the vespertine febricula and intolerance to standing for pain, requiring continuous intravenous infusion with derivatives ̄s.
Parenteral instillation of ̄s ̄s symptoms led to acute urinary retention and a persistent constipation that was resolved by urinary catheterization and laxatives, respectively.
This clinical situation led to a change in empirical antibiotic therapy.
Piperacillin-ta was initiated at a dose of 4/0.5 g every 8 hours.
An epidural catheter was placed to achieve locoregional anesthesia by continuous infusion of ropivacaine and fentanyl.
Hemocultives infected with antibiotics in aerobic and anaerobic environment, which were admitted to hospital, were negative (performed under empirical parenteral coverage).
Tuberculin skin test (PPD or Mantoux) was also negative at 48 hours.
The clinical suspicion of a septic abdominal focus and the analytical diagnosis of colitis associated with the intestinal pattern were established. An abdominal ultrasound and a diagnostic test ruled out an intraabdominal abscess.
The radiological study was completed by lumbosacral-pelvic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
A CT-guided needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of the abscess was performed for culture of the pyogenic material.
At T2-weighted lumbosacral-pelvic MRI, acute left sacroiliitis and abscess in the left iliac muscle were observed.
The lesion volume was slightly lower (5 x 2 x 2 mm) than the CT performed immediately after hospital admission.
Parenteral cloxacillin was introduced again pending the results of CT-guided cultures of pyogenic material.
Salmonella enterica sensitive to quinolones and third generation cephalosporins were identified in the abscess material culture.
The patient completed 6 months of treatment with oral ciprofloxacin at 750 mg every 12 hours.
A good clinical response was obtained, and radiological improvement was observed by decreasing the edema and resolution of the tapered bone collection.
Final diagnosis: Left septic arthritis with collection accrued to the iliac muscle by Salmonella enterica.
