Anamnesis of 74 years old, with personal history of multiple myeloma who received allogeneic bone marrow transplant 10 months before, and in treatment with host disease graft contratacrolimus, mycophenolate and▁steroids from approximately 15 days.
The patient was admitted to the Hematology Department due to a 24-48-hour history of general syndrome, fatigue, generalized muscle ache, nausea and vomiting, which had been associated with a 7-day course of antibiotic treatment.
Twenty-four hours after admission, the Neurology Service was requested to assess the presence of weakness in the right upper limb that progressed within a few hours to develop a brachial diplegia.
Physical activity Eupneic, O2 saturation 97%.
Arterial hypertension 125/89 mmHg.
Heart rate 111 bpm.
Pathological pulmonary consolidation with presence of bilateral dispersed wheezing and the rest of the systemic examination showed anodyne.
Neurological examination revealed a conscious patient who maintained superior functions.
Language is normal.
No dysarthria.
Ocular motility and confrontation campimetry are normal and not facial objective.
It presents weakness at 1/5 level of cervical flexion.
Upper limbs showed a plejia of the MSD and paresis at 0/5 distal and 2/5 proximal of the LUL.
Muscle balance in the lower limbs is normal.
No significant alterations were observed in the different modalities (algesic, vibratory, arthrokinetic or tactile).
The patient presents with upper limb areflexia with symmetrical osteotendinous reflexes in the lower limbs.
The cutaneous-plantar reflex is bilaterally flexor.
▁Complementary tests • Biochemistry, blood count and coagulation: no relevant findings.
• Lumbar puncture: 21 leukocytes/mm3 (7% lymphocytes, 93% polymorphonuclear), proteinorrhachia 42.6 mg/dl, normal glucorrhachia.
• Culture and Gram of CSF: negative.
• Blood culture: negative.
• Urinocultives: negative.
• Serum infectious serology: EBV, CMV, ESR, Mycoplasma IgG positive and IgM negative.
Borrelia leptospira, loos, measles, cryptococci, adenovirus, Coxiella, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Influenza, Legionella, RSV negative.
• Virology in CSF: detection of Enterovirus 68 RNA by PCR positive.
Detection for CMV PCR, HSV-1, HSV-2, VZV, EBV, HV6, HV7 negative.
• Serum Virology: positive Enterovirus PCR detection.
Detection of CMV, EBV, adenovirus, Rhinovirus, RSV, Influenza A and B, consolidation, Metapneumovirus, Bocavirus negative.
• Cranial CT: no significant findings.
• cervical spine MRI (15 November): no signs of compression or invasion of the spinal canal.
At the level of the cervical and thoracic spinal cord, a hyperintense linear lesion is identified in T2-weighted sequences that affect the anterior▁horn of the spinal cord bilaterally.
No pathological uptakes were identified.
• Cranial MRI (19 December): poorly defined hypersignal on the left margin of the lump was observed, with no other data on parenchymal involvement or pathological contrast uptake being observed.
• Cervical MRI (19 December): there is an improvement in the extension of the lesions, which is limited to C3-C7.
At this level, lesions in the anterior side of the spinal cord affecting the anterior▁horns bilaterally are observed.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the cervical spine in STIR sequence, axial and sagittal sections: hyperintensity is observed that affects the anterior▁horn of the spinal cord.
• SSEP: normal central and medullary conduction for somesthesic seizures of both median nerves with increased peripheral latency.
Diagnosis Infectious myelitis secondary to Enterovirus infection 68.
Treatment Started with▁steroids at doses of 1 g/kg weight and immunoglobulins, as well as antivirals and broad-spectrum antibiotics in the initial suspicion of an infectious or parainfectious picture.
Although the vascular etiology represented a less probable ethiopathogenic possibility, conservative management was established.
The patient remained clinically worsening, presenting dysphagia and dysphonia and requiring hours later transfer to the ICU for intubation due to respiratory failure.
During his stay in the Unit, the neurological deficit progressed to develop a tetraplejia septaxic acid, dying a month later in relation to multiple systemic complications.
