A 16-year-old woman came to the family for a disorganized behavior assessment at home and conduct disorders (verbal and/or physical aggression toward parents).
Parents had contacted one week before to report these disorders and to see how to manage the situation. They referred conduct disorders for more or less than one year in their academic career, and had attended another school before returning home daughter.
They had noticed that, at some weekends when the girl was at home, her behavior was similar, albeit to a lesser extent.
The initial challenging behaviors were transformed into hostile towards any normative suggestion, going to aggressive attitudes, firstly physical towards objects, then physical towards the former, towards the latter towards the former mother.
Parents had detected a cannabis consumption that could not be quantified 2 or 3 months ago, after talking to their daughter's friends and, when contrasted with her, she vaguely talked about a consumption of only 2 years ago".
They propose to go to a psychiatrist and layman.
At the first appointment, the psychiatrist prescribes treatment with fluoxetine 20 mg/day and reviews every 15 days.
Parents did not perceive improvement and the girl decided to abandon the treatment in the third session.
Parents then take to Project Man, where they come regularly every 15 days and where it is detected in weekly urine analysis of cannabis and is sporadically an anffiliated consumption (1 time a month).
They suggest that you go to the psychiatrist because behavioral disorders go up to more (after a month more or less in which you get better) and do not quit.
In the first consultation, the patient presents a negative attitude, irritation, sleep disorders, timetables and ideas of death.
She had no psychotic symptoms (some delusion of delusion in relation to high consumption in the past) and she was verborrheic, with a slight escape of ideas and expansive spirit.
It is very aggressive towards the unprotected attitude of parents, especially towards the mother.
6-8 does not consume cannabis since the age of 12 (date when she was admitted to the hospital), with an initial consumption of weekends, to increase to 13 years of age in daily consumption, being before returning home
It justifies consumption as a way to overcome its fat-like complex".
Admite a sporadic consumption of anffiliates in relation to festivities in the village and concerts of mâbrassica.
The mother is a very anxious and controllable woman; the father is a man who is challenged by the situation of the daughter and the attitude of the mother.
No family history of first or second degree.
There is an older brother in the family, with whom the patient refers good relationship, although now she had moved away from her by her attitude at home.
The patient remains under pharmacological treatment and continues with the Man Project, with whom he is very satisfied.
Haloperidol was prescribed up to 4.5 mg/day, but due to the side effects it was changed to ziprasidone (120 mg/day).
This treatment was maintained for two months, with total remission of the condition.
Two positive consumptions were detected, corresponding to an increase in symptomatology.
Suddenly, during the course of a week (start of spring) the patient presented with depressive symptoms, including apathy, sleep and appetite disorders, social isolation, concentration disorders, moderate suicide, and social isolation.
Paroxetine (20 mg/day) was used as a substitute for ziprasidone, with partial response, due to the fact that venlaparin 75 mg/day was administered.
The symptoms disappeared completely and the behavior became normal, so the treatment with venlaparin was reduced 37.5 mg/day.
No substance use was detected in three months.
In November that year, the patient restarted cannabis use "to calm her anxiety" by the tests she had at the institute.
The patient presented a clinical picture similar to the initial one, with maniform symptoms and again began with neurotic seizures, with symptom control.
Then he changes the therapist.
