ANTECE dementia: Family history: father and brother with early coronary artery disease (< 55 years) and hypercholesterolemia.
Non-smoker.
No arterial hypertension (AHT) or diabetes mellitus (DM).
Drink of two glasses of wine/day and some glass on weekends.
Probable familial hypercholesterolemia.
In 2004.
Total cholesterol 326 mg/dl, triglycerides 102 mg/dl, high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc) 65 mg/dl, low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc) 245
Atorvastatin intolerance 10 mg: liver test abnormalities in 2009: AST 366 U/L; ALT 981 U/L; GGT 699 U/L, normalized after stopping statin.
Liver ultrasound showed no abnormalities.
Fatty liver (mild elevation of GGT and ultrasound 2016).
PRESENTATION OF THE ABOUT Effort Fe deten: Referral for diffuse chest pain the day before, oppressive, after climbing a slope with a great slope, of approximately 5 minutes duration that he gave.
In the last 6 months, the patient had a more sedentary life; previously, physical exercise practiced well.
PHYSICAL ASSESSMENT: Good general condition, blood pressure (BP) 137 mmHg, height 171, weight 76, body mass index (BMI) 26, head and neck unchanged.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal.
Abdomen and normal limbs.
There is no evidence of corneal arch,▁xanthomas or▁xanthelasmas.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUES ECG: sinus rhythm 80 per min, incomplete right bundle branch block of His, without changes in repolarization.
ANALYTICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
ANALYTIC (Alumins): glucose 95 mg/dl, glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 5.4%, FGE > 90 ml/min, total cholesterol 267 mg/dl high cholesterol
ECOCARDIOGRAM: normal cardiac cavities.
Global and segmental systolic function of the left ventricle was normal.
No valvular heart disease, shunt or pericardial effusion.
ERGOMETRY: Bruce protocol, basal heart rate (HR) 70 bpm, BP 135/70 mmHg.
Sustained at 10.30 minutes.
HR 178 bpm and BP 175 mmHg.
Clinical and ECG were negative.
12 metabolic equivalents (MET) (image 2).
CORONARIO ANGIO-TC: (previous administration of intravenous atenolol, sinus rhythm 62 per min), acceptable quality of the study, with very mild step artifacts.
Origin and course of the coronary arteries were normal.
Left coronary trunk (15 mm) without stenosis or calcifications, anterior descending artery, after the origin of a large first diagonal presents a moderate stenosis (50-75%) concentric, without calcified plaque, in the middle segment of about 10 mm.
Epidermoid arthritis (affects less than 50%) with a mild, non-calcified lesion at its origin.
Small intermediate development.
A right dominant coronary artery, without significant stenosis calcifications, originates a large rampolateral that presents a mild stenosis, not calcified (< 50%) in its origin.
▁CLINICAL EVOLUTION A patient with a family history of early coronary disease and suspected familial hypercholesterolemia, asymptomatic from the cardiological point of view to the current episode, highly suggestive of angina stress.
Years before, he had received statin therapy, initially simvastatin 20 but was suspected for ineffectiveness (LDLc > 180 mg/d) by atorvastatin 10 which had to be discontinued due to reversible liver damage.
This occurred in 2009 (at that time he had decreased to LDL 129 mg/dl).
Since then, without lipid-lowering treatment, LDL-C levels have remained between 180 and 250 mg/dl.
At present, she consults for a single chest pain in relation to a greater than usual effort; acute event is ruled out and an ergometry is performed which is negative 12 METs, but due to the probability of coronary artery disease angiograms.
In view of these results, cholesterol lowering treatment with▁acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg, betavolant intolerance (bisoprolol 2.5 mg), and atorvastatin ramipryl (2.5 mg), plus a potential inhibitor of atorvastatin 140 mg
Currently there is a pending result of genetic study.
DIAGNOSIS Probable familial hypercholesterolemia (FH).
Statin intolerance.
Stress angina
Coronary artery disease with non-significant stenosis.
