A 14-year-old woman, born in the Netherlands, lives in Spain since she was 5 years old.
No toxic habits or family, medical or surgical history of interest.
She denied contact with rural areas and travel abroad (except her hometown).
You have cats and dogs at home.
You do not follow any usual treatment.
The patient was initially admitted due to a two-week history of fever up to 39oC, asthenia,▁malaise and poor cough.
Blood tests and chest X-ray were performed, and the patient was diagnosed with pneumonia acquired in the right lower lobe community (RLD). Empirical treatment with ceftriaxone and clarithromycin was initiated.
After 48 hours of admission, positive results for PCR of influenza A were obtained, so treatment with oseltamivir was added.
The patient has an unfavorable clinical evolution requiring admission to the Intensive Care Unit with▁frank hemoptysis associated with severe anemia.
Support measures were established with clinical improvement, later transferred to the▁Pneumology ward.
On the eighth day of admission, the patient remains febrile and begins with vomiting, perioral and hand paresthesias together with weakness in lower limbs.
It was decided to perform a CT of the skull where multiple cerebral LOEs were objectified, so the Infectious Diseases Service of our center was consulted for study.
Differential diagnosis We present the case of a patient with multiple cerebral LOEs associated with pulmonary condensation.
Among the non-infectious causes, the possibility of tumor causes should be ruled out.
Among them, metastatic brain involvement secondary to a lung tumor is unlikely due to the young age of the patient and the absence of exposure to toxic pulmonary agents, or primary brain lymphoma or glioblastoma multiforme, although fewer in both cases.
Among the infectious causes we would include those of fungal origin, such as histoplasmosis or aspergillosis, although these usually occur more in immunosuppressed patients and those of parasitic origin, such as in our case, are usually apoc
Tuberculosis or listeriosis would be included among the bacterial etiologies, although they are usually more frequently associated with meningitis or encephalitis and not as space occupying lesions.
Although nocardiosis is more common in immunocompromised patients or in patients associated with steroid treatment, it usually manifests with brain involvement of pulmonary origin, so we would not rule out the most probable etiology.
And finally, infections by pyogenic bacteria, which depending on their origin will make us think of a particular bacterial group.
If we think of a possible abdominal origin, we would have to take into account enterobacteria, if it is endovascular gram-positive, such as staphylococci and steptococci, and if it is pulmonary, as in our case,
After transfer to our centre, a cranial MRI was performed, revealing multiple supratentorial lesions.
between 20-25) in both cortical-subcortical cerebral hemispheres and in deep white matter, the largest size 2.3 cm left frontal, all of them with marked vessel wall enhancement in its left ventricular collapse plus a bilateral midline deviation.
An abdominal CT was performed and no relevant findings were found. Chest CT showed an alveolar infiltrate in the RLL associated with moderate right pleural effusion with air-fluid levels suggestive of empyema.
The study was also completed with transthoracic echocardiography where it was possible to find patent foramen ovale and no vegetations.
Microbiological tests were performed: blood culture, sputum culture with AFB, culture, culture, antigenuria for sputum culture with negative culture for CMV, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis B virus, and serology.
M. tuberculosis was suspected in the brain biopsy of one of the lesions to be taken for microbiological samples, with negative results in the culture (auramine, PCR toxoplasma, PCR toxoplasma
During his stay in our center, the antibiotic spectrum is widened starting linezolid, trimethoprim/methotoxazole and metronidazole, completing eight weeks of treatment, with good radiological, respiratory and neurological outcome.
A control chest CT scan showed radiological improvement compared to previous CT scans, with a practically disappearance of consolidation, together with the finding of multiple cysts in the apical segment of the right lower lobe that communicated with cystic ductus arteriosus, suggestive of basal bronchiectasis in the adenoma.
Upon discharge, the patient was referred to cardiology consultations that showed a patent foramen ovale by transesophageal echocardiography and to orthopedic surgery outpatient clinics for surgical treatment of pulmonary▁coccidioidomycosis.
Final diagnosis Multiple cerebral abscesses multiple pathogenic origin associated with cystic adenomatoid pulmonary and lobar pneumonia without filiation of the causative microorganism.
