Consultation note: A 47-year-old male patient attended the emergency department of our center for worsening of his mood with suicidal ideation for several weeks.
Social and family history • It is the median of three siblings.
He studied until 14 years old.
GBS ended.
She has been working since she was 18 as a gossip.
Primer marriage in 1990.
Registered since 2005.
No current partner.
18 years old.
She lives with her parents in Masquefa.
He lived in Hospitalet de Llobregat until he was 33 years old.
• Family history of depressive disorder: father and sister.
• A paternic uncle committed suicide.
Medical-surgical history • She denied known drug allergies.
• HIV + diagnosed in 1987.
Initially, no antiretroviral treatment was given.
Antiretroviral treatment began in 2005 with a▁pause of a few months "because it made him feel like a sick person".
Regular follow-up since then at Bellvitge Hospital.
Medical-surgical history • 2005 – SEE for Salmonella: CV 27175copies and CD4 50 .
Just decide to start tto.
Antiretroviral therapy.
• 2005: Cerebral toxoplasmosis with good outcome (sulfadiacin + pyrim).
• 2007 CMV disease with loss of vision in the right eye.
• Denies other relevant medical history.
• Surgical interventions: a ophthalmic cystectomy, lithiasis in childhood.
Psychiatric history • First consultation in 1987 – admission to H. de Terrific detoxification from heroin dependence.
He began the consumption of toxics during the Military Service.
Several relapses from 1987 to 2008.
• Having conducted psychiatric follow-up at the private level in Barcelona due to episodes of distress crisis in the context of social and family problems and relapses in the consumption of toxic substances.
Remember to have received anxiolytic treatment with partial improvement of symptoms.
• Two suicide attempts: • 2005- "a curve the straight line" (without physical sequelae); • 2007- cocaine that "considered it lethal".
• 2007– refer to the CSMA of Martorell, referred by the bedside physician with a diagnosis of major depressive disorder.
Start with escitalopram 10 mg with partial improvement.
Stop taking your medication on your own.
Irregular continuity.
a Fetal worsening of anxiety disorder. – admission to Sagrat Cor Hospital due to major depressive episode with melancolic symptoms and discharge with escitalopram 15 mg. Irregular follow-up in a CSMA Martor
• Consumption with a pattern of cocaine abuse from 2005 to 2008.
Consumption "as a form of self-destruction" begins after separation.
"It gave him the same thing."
• Alcohol consumption with abuse pattern for 2 years with worsening in recent months.
Current illness The patient abandons the medication four months ago, later presents a clinical picture of insidious onset characterized by sadness, loss of illusion, feelings of inability to carry out projects and social and family problems, as referred in the
He suffered a progressive abandonment of his hygienic-dietetic care and remarkable social isolation, even considering death as something desirable "there was dying people and thought he was resting so".
Emergency psychiatric admission was performed in volunary modality for treating psychiatric disorders on February 20, 2012.
Self- and psychically oriented psychopathology.
Unhealthy physical aspect.
Avoid eye contact.
Approachable and collaborating.
Hypomimia.
Slow language with low voice.
Depressive mood with feelings of sadness, which presents circadian rhythm, and evening improvement.
Existential bonding.
Anergy, apathy, anhedonia, abulia, difficulty concentrating.
Per capitation and interest
Tendency to social isolation.
Ideas of handicap and guilt .
Low tolerance to frustration.
Imperativeness.
Poorly structured suicide ideation.
No alteration of the course or of the content of the delusional type thought was observed.
She denied sensory disturbance.
Hyporexia with loss quantified.
Constipation insomnia
Early▁awakening
Awareness of disease and need for help
Conserved reality criteria.
Diagnostic orientation Recurrent major depressive disorder with melancolic symptomatology according to DSM IV criteria.
Analytical test • Leukocytes 3.200; copy AST; platelets: 0.72; 134000 • Hb 117; Ht 34.8; MCV 91.3; • Glucose 4.4; Creatinine 78, Na 143;
Evazepam Treatment with Escitalopram and Lorazepam is started gradually during hospitalization.
Progressive mood improvement was observed, with good adaptation to the dynamics of the unit and the permissions at home.
It performs a total critique of the ideation of suicide, verbalizing plans for the future occupational and medium-term suicide, coherent, realistic and adaptive, focused on family life and at the level.
The patient accepted outpatient treatment.
Given the good evolution, it was decided to discharge the patient 20 days after admission, according to the patient and his family.
Follow-up in CSMA with good evolution.
Treatment • Escitalopram 20 mg 1-0-0 • Lorazepam 1-0-1e • Intelvir (ritonavir) 100grav mg 1-0-1 • Prezista (darunavir) 600 mg 1-0-1
