Anamnesis A 47-year-old male patient, with no previous history of interest, consulted due to a decrease in meatal caliber and progressive worsening of the quality of the voiding, with stinging and lengthening of time.
Physical examination The patient presented a good general appearance, with normal genital appearance, without evident skin lesions, which presented meatal stenosis, indicating surgical treatment.
During meatotomy, the urethral mucosa was covered with lesions suggestive of condyloma acuminata, and urethroscopy was performed in the same surgical procedure.
▁Complementary tests • In urethrocystoscopy, pedunculated verrucous lesions are observed that extend covering the entire mucosa from the navicular fossa to the bulbar urethra biopsy, to the same extent.
• The pathological result of the biopsy of the lesions was condyloma acuminatum with mild-to-moderate epithelial dysplasia.
• Serial voiding cystourethrography (SMCU) is requested, in which regular caliber urethra, but with scalloped limits and filling defects throughout its length are observed.
• The study is complemented by research on other STDs, with positive results for HIV, not known to date.
Diagnosis Extensive intraurethral condylomatosis in HIV-positive patients.
Treatment The patient was referred to the Infectious Diseases Unit of our hospital to complete the study and initiate systemic treatment of his HIV infection.
To treat their intraurethral lesions, intraurethral topical treatment was applied with 5% 5-fluorouracil gel with lidocaine, administered once a week for 6 weeks, applied intraurethrally for 20 minutes with no relevant side effects.
After initial treatment, the patient reported improvement in her quality of life, but without achieving comfort before the onset of symptoms.
A new cystourethrography was performed, showing a decrease in urethral irregularity, but without complete disappearance of it, so a new cycle of intraurethral treatment is indicated, this time for 8 weeks.
Once the topical treatment is completed, minor lesions in the navicular fossa alone are urethroscopically treated with laser photocoagulation.
In the follow-up urethroscopy after one month there was no recurrence of the lesions, and the urethral caliber was uniform, without stenosis or stenosis.
In subsequent clinical controls the patient remains asymptomatic and normal urethrography and urethrocystoscopy at 6 months follow-up.
