Consultation time Fever and impaired consciousness.
Individual Approach Anamnesis: Allergic to diclofenac.
Personal history: cognitive impairment, Parkinson's disease, stroke, sleep apnea, hypertension, BPH, DM, COPD, hypoacusis, smoker, non-oxygen home.
Usual treatment: metformin 20 mg, enalapril/ hydrochlorothiazide, budesonide, sinemet plus, rivastigmine,▁acetylsalicylic acid
Current disease: Patient who comes to the emergency department referred by his GP.
That morning she had started with headache and tiritone accompanied by a fever peak of 39oC. Her empirical level of treatment with ciprofloxacin worsened for a possible UTI, although she did not present any mimicry symptoms; she became conscious during the day.
On previous days, the patient had not had a catarrhal condition, but had not had urinary or digestive symptoms.
Establishment: Glasglow 8.
TA 115/75 Sat.
98% had myotic and non-reactive lesions.
Septic mouth.
Neck stiffness, Brudzinski negative.
CA: pure tones at 100 bpm without murmurs AR: MVC, isolated roncus Erythema eccematosus with scratching lesions in the right costal region.
Abdomen: blade, depressible, with no sign of peritoneal irritation LL: no edema or signs of DVT▁Complementary tests: chest X-ray: no condensation or effusion.
Cranial CT: chronic degenerative vasculopathy, normal rest.
Analytical: leukocytes 38880 neutrophils 91.30% PCR 79.2 procalcitonin 3.98 Creatinine 0.65 INR 1.61 venous gas: pH 7.41, pCO2 30.7, pO2 71 a
53.6.
Normal urine Hemoculture positive to Strep.
Urinocultiva negative.
Lumbar puncture: 21000 leukocytes with predominance of PMN.
Glucose 4.
Proteins 968mg/dl.
Sample could not be sent to mycology.
In plan: TAC: findings in possible relation to chronic▁otitis media in the right ear.
Family and Community Approach Patient partially dependent for activities of daily living due to previous stroke and parkinsonism.
She lives with her daughter and her family.
Clinical differential diagnosis: stroke, sepsis, meningitis, encephalitis.
Clinical judgement:▁Pneumococcal meningitis, chronic right-sided meningitis.
Action Plan After the complementary tests and the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis, specific treatment was established, after stabilization, the patient was admitted to infectious diseases.
Currently oriented, the patient is conscious, with great improvement and waiting to complete rehabilitation to be discharged home.
