A 53-year-old boy presented with a 3-week history of fever and profuse weakness and myalgia in his lower limbs.
He had lived in Spain for 15 years and reported a 10-day trip to a Bolivian city three months earlier.
No history of insect bites, no drug abuse, or risky sexual intercourse.
On physical examination, To 37.6oC, hemodynamically stable, Sat O2 95% with room air.
Limitation of lower limb movements due to myalgia
Physical examination was normal.
Laboratory tests revealed leukocytosis(17540 / μL) with neutrophilia (14630 / μL), elevated levels of granular (248, elevated liver enzymes 248, choline U/L, elevated levels of granular ALT/ U/L
Normal parameter remnant.
CT scan of the neck, chest and abdomen showed a mural thickening of the infrarenal aorta, suggestive of periadrenal adenoma.
Inflammatory activity was confirmed with PET-CT, associating irregular uptake in lower limbs.
Indirect immunofluorescence revealed p-ANCA positivity (1: 1280), (MPO-ANCA> 134 IU/ ml).
Trypanosoma Cruzi serology was also positive with IgG (1/512).
The diagnosis of chronic Chagas disease was made after confirming the presence of megacolon by opaque enema.
Upper gastrointestinal or cardiac involvement was not observed after performing barium▁esophagogram and echocardiography.
EMG was performed without evidence of myopathy, but MRI of the lower limbs showed interfascial edema and T2 hyperintensity suggesting diffuse inflammation.
Muscle biopsies showed perimysial vasculitis of small vessels.
These findings were consistent with a presentation of microscopic polyangiitis with muscle involvement, probable renal and large vessel involvement.
The patient was treated with Benznidazole 5mg/kg per day (60 days), 3 boluses of methylprednisolone 250 mg. Subsequently prednisone 1mg/kg/day with progressive reduction of urinary replacement and Ritum
After the third dose of Rituximab, he developed hemoptysis, so▁bronchoscopy with LAB and transbronchial biopsy were performed, showing▁exudate but without urgent remnants purulent.
The biopsy ruled out capillaritis but several sputum and LAB cultures were positive for Aspergillus fumigatus, so the patient was treated with itraconazole 200 mg/12 h (12 weeks), with complete resolution of the symptoms.
The patient was discharged with oral prednisone and will receive maintenance therapy with Rituximab.
