A 51-year-old male, born in Isla Mayor, smoker of 20 packs/year, employed in a piscifactory, amateur to rearing hens and collecting crabs.
She came to the emergency room for a 2-day history consisting of asthenia, hypoxia, generalized arthromyalgias predominantly in the lower limbs, severe retro-orbital headache and 8-10 vomiting a day that limit intake.
He has not presented fever, diarrhea, abdominal pain or visual disturbances.
Physical examination showed no remarkable changes except conjunctival injection.
Analytically, the following stand out: creatinine 2.64 mg/dl, leukocytosis 13740 with neutrophilia (83%), platelet count 5 and GGT 168 IU/l.
The characteristics of the disease have led us to an infectious disease: malaria, dengue coinella virus and fever ruled out due to the absence of malaria abroad; we cannot rule out a liver infection, travel sickness, and other causes of HIV,
Serology was requested for these entities and it was decided to proceed with the admission of the patient.
An abdominal ultrasound and a chest X-ray were performed in which no relevant findings were observed.
Empirical antibiotic therapy was initiated with ceftriaxone 1g IV/24h and evolution was monitored.
After 5 days of treatment, the patient evolved favorably, the symptoms disappeared and the laboratory values were corrected previously altered, with creatinine 0.58, 11720 leukocytes and 17 platelets.
Given the evident improvement, the patient was discharged home continuing empirical antibiotic therapy with cefixima 400 mg every 24 hours until completing 7 days of treatment.
After one week, the asymptomatic patient collects the results of serological tests that are positive for leptospira.
10% of leptospirosis present clinically as Weil's syndrome: jaundice, renal failure and hemorrhagic diathesis; 90% usually present with fever, headache, myalgia and characteristically conjunctival congestion.
The diagnosis of leptospirosis is based on the clinic within an adequate epidemiological context.
There is no possibility of direct culture and serological diagnosis is very difficult, requiring serology on day +7 of onset of symptoms.
Clinical suspicion in a compatible epidemiological environment should be suspected and empirical treatment initiated.
