Background, current disease and physical examination A 64-year-old man presented with right sudden amaurosis.
Personal history: allergy to penicillin, hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity and smoking.
Without reporting, she reported that she was admitted to another hospital in 2007 for left hemispheric stroke of which she had seated herself without sequelae and was followed up for valvular heart disease.
Usual treatment with enalapril, simvastatin and clopidogrel.
Current disease: sudden total visual loss of right eye of 24 h onset.
He had no dyspnea, chest pain, fever or other symptoms.
Physical assessment: BP 145/88 mmHg, 88 ppm, 36.7 oC, conscious, oriented, eupneic, hydrated and normal-colored.
Catheterized vesicular eruption: conserved mucus without overlapping sounds.
Cardiac auscultation revealed a grade III/VI aortic systolic murmur irradiated to the carotids and grade III/VI systolic murmur on the left edge irradiated towards the axilla.
Abdomen and limbs showed no remarkable findings.
▁Complementary tests Chest X-ray: absence of cardiomegaly, without pleural effusion, infiltrates or consolidations.
Electrocardiography: sinus rhythm at 91 bpm, left cardiac axis at -45o.
Left atrial growth
Criteria for left ventricular hypertrophy by Cornell.
Left anterior hemiblock.
Decrease of 1 mm ST in I and AvL with negative T wave in these leads.
No dynamic changes in repolarization.
QTc 443 msec.
Analytical: 12,000 leukocytes, Hb 11.5 g/dl, 335,000 platelets.
Normal coagulation.
ESR 39 mm/h, CRP 4.27 mg/L.
Biochemistry and normal thyroid function.
ANA, anti-DNA and ANCA were negative.
Hypercoagulability study without pathological findings.
Serology (Mycoplasma, Chlamydia, Coxiella, Lues, Brucella and HBV) negative.
▁Right eye fundus: a white color macula, edema blistering due to ischemia, narrowing of arteries stenosis and▁exudates white, was observed.
Transesophageal echocardiography: highly destructured aortic valve with severe thickening and calcification with severe aortic stenosis (mean gradient 50 mmHg), mild aortic regurgitation.
Mitral valve with several images suggestive of mitral stenosis.
Two images of mobile vegetations, the largest of 6 mm, are seen on the auricular side of the posterior leaflet.
There is a jet of mild mitral insufficiency that suggests posterior valve perforation.
Severe left ventricular hypertrophy and preserved LVEF.
Absence of patent foramen ovale by injection of agitated serum.
AngioCT of the supra-aortic trunks showed carotid atherosclerosis and in the angio-CT of ABT, right internal carotid stenosis of 60-70%.
Independent hemocultives x3: positive for Streptococcus viridans.
Clinical manifestations after evaluation of occlusion in our centre were diagnosed with central right retinal artery (CRAO).
The patient was admitted to internal medicine for study.
A carotid atheroplex was observed in the supra-aortic trunks (ATS) and a right internal carotid stenosis of 60-70 % was observed in the carotid angio-TAC.
Despite the carotid findings that could justify the condition, a transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was performed as a search for embolic source, showing severe aortic stenosis, degenerative signs in mitral valve (MV) with mitral insufficiency.
Due to the poor echocardiographic window, a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) was performed, which confirmed the existence of severe aortic stenosis with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), visualizing vegetations on MV and perforation of the posterior leaflet.
Three hemocultives were extracted, growing in all samples Streptococcus viridans.
With the diagnosis of subacute mitral infective endocarditis (IE) on the native valve (and possibly aortic) and the history described, he was treated with vancomycin and gentamicin following the usual regimen.
The patient remained afflicted throughout hospitalization, with negative control hemocultives.
Control TTE and TEE were performed with vegetation disappearance, and mild DI as sequel.
The infective endocarditis was resolved by external consultation of vascular surgery for evaluation of carotid endarterectomy and cardiology for monitoring of its valvular heart disease.
Two months after admission, carotid surgery was performed and later, due to the onset of symptoms, aortic valve replacement with a metallic prosthesis was performed, without complications and with good cardiovascular outcome.
However, the patient has not recovered the vision of the right eye.
Diagnosis Occlusion of central artery of the right retina.
Subacute endocarditis caused by Streptococcus viridans.
Severe asymptomatic aortic stenosis with preserved LVEF.
This right carotid artery was significant.
