A 57-year-old male, ex-smoker for 28 years, with low-risk IgG kappa monoclonal gammopathy, and a fully active and independent life (smoking to the gym and exercising daily).
Two weeks before admission, the patient developed dry cough and fever, which was attributed to a catarrhal high-flow tract condition.
Days later, the patient suffered chest pain with characteristics of a spasm, irradiating to the interscapular region and left scapula, which is why he came to the emergency department and was diagnosed with possible muscle contracture.
She started treatment with analgesics, a muscular anticonvulsant, and also a bladder cancer.
Persistence of cough and pain despite treatment comes back to the Emergency Department.
He had never presented dyspnea at any time.
On physical examination, the patient was in good general condition, TA 110/74 mmHg, HR 95 bpm, Ta 36 oC, basal SpO2 93%, with no tachypnea or respiratory work.
Cardiac auscultation was normal, and pulmonary auscultation revealed biphasic crackles.
The rest of the examination showed no pathological findings.
In the initial assessment, the complementary tests were: • Basic analysis ng (ultrasound, fibrinogram, coagulation), highlighting 11,260 leukocytes/μl (91.3% neutrophils), CRP 547.9 mg/ CK 12200 ng
• Chest X-ray, in which the presence of bilateral pleural effusion of right predominance, with pneumonic infiltrate in the left lower lobe is observed.
• ECG: sinus tachycardia at 124 bpm, with no other pathological findings.
Urine output was normal.
Differential diagnosis from a syndromic point of view, and once basic complementary tests are performed on arrival to the emergency department, the most likely diagnosis is respiratory sepsis due to community acquired pneumonia in the left lower lobe tachycardia, pulmonary embolism or pulmonary embolism
Although chest and interscapular pain are characteristic pain, it is necessary to rule out the presence of cardiac pathology such as acute coronary syndrome or dissecting aneurysm of the intrathoracic aorta.
The absence of electrical changes and elevation of cardiac enzymes makes the first diagnosis unlikely; for the second, we would require new complementary examinations (echocardiogram, chest CT), although it seems less likely to be hypertension due to its lower frequency.
Regarding bilateral pleural effusion with biphasic crepitants, in addition to the possibility that the left pleural effusion could be parapneumonic or even be an empyema, the possibility of left heart failure should be considered.
This, excluding the previously mentioned cardiovascular diseases, could be framed in the context of an infectious endocarditis on the naval valve or other valvular heart disease, pericardium involvement, much less prevalent connective diseases (pericardial effusion), pericardium involvement
The examination revealed no murmurs or pericardial friction, and the ECG showed no signs of acute pericarditis.
However, to rule out these conditions completely, it would be necessary to perform an echocardiogram and other analytical determinations.
Other diagnostic possibilities that could explain the presence of bilateral crackles would be the existence of pulmonary fibrosis or carcinomatous lymphangitis, although in the absence of other symptoms and signs it seems reasonable to rule out them at least at the initial time.
Scapular pain may also be related to musculoskeletal injuries (contracture secondary to exercise, lytic neoplasm type or metastasis of unknown primary).
For the former, he had received unsuccessful treatment, while the latter can be ruled out as bone lesions were not seen on chest X-ray.
Elevation of transaminases could be related to a wide range of possibilities: hepatic steatosis, chronic infection with hepatitis B or C virus, acute infection with other hepatotropic viruses (Q fever, cytomegalic fever, viral infection), viral infection
), unrecognized alcoholism, low cardiac output, space occupying lesions at the liver level, etc., requiring new analytical determinations and abdominal ultrasound to clarify it.
The patient was hospitalized in the Internal Medicine Unit.
On admission, serology for HIV, HBV, HCV, syphilis, CMV and EBV was performed, all of them negative.
The determination of ANA and ANCA was negative, ruling out autoimmune disease.
Abdominal ultrasound showed signs of hepatic steatosis, which could justify the slight elevation of transaminases in addition to pleural effusion.
A transthoracic echocardiogram showed severe pericardial effusion with hemodynamic compromise and signs.
Polymorphous leukocytes, pleural and pericardial effusions were detected in 31.74%, with diagnostic and pericardiocentesis with placement of pericardial drainage and purulent discharge, whose respective cytobiochemical characteristics were compatible with pleural
ADA determination was normal and tumor markers and cultures (including mycobacterial) were negative.
▁Cytological analysis revealed only significant nonspecific acute inflammation.
Two samples of hemocultives were isolated non-capsulated Haemophilus influenzae.
The patient received intravenous antibiotic treatment (ceftriaxone + levofloxacin) for 14 days, completing a total of 4 weeks of oral treatment with levofloxacin.
In addition, depleting treatment with ibuprofen was performed.
The evolution was favorable from the clinical point of view (disappearance of cough, chest and interscapular pain, and decrease in crackles), analytical (normalization of echocardiographic data of acute phase effusion),
Final diagnosis Finally, the patient was diagnosed with community-acquired pneumonia in the left lower lobe, bacteremia due to Haemophilus influenzae and purulent pleuroperiitis with severe pericardial effusion and secondary heart failure.
