A 58-year-old patient had no toxic habits or drug allergies.
Medical history of BPH, universal areata alopecia, chronic gastritis, and Helicobacter pylori infection, received stridor treatment.
In usual treatment with Omeprazole.
From the week before admission, the patient was diagnosed with acute exacerbation receiving treatment with Amoxicillin, Dipyrone and ibuprofen.
Persistent dysthermia and diaphoresis and intense asthenia persisted, coming to the emergency department.
Physical examination in the emergency room showed fever of 39oC, hyperemic pharynx without▁exudates, peripheral adenopathies were not observed.
Epigastric pain without peritonitis, rest normal.
The emergency laboratory tests showed leukopenia with neutropenia of 200/L.
No anemia or thrombocytopenia.
Initially, pharmacological neutropenia associated with metamizole was suggested.
Treatment with Filgrastim was started and antibiotic therapy with piperacillin-tazodone, she developed oropharyngeal candidiasis and started treatment with fluconazole.
Persistence of fever without recovery of agranulocytosis, presenting painful mouth sores that subsequently was positive PCR for herpes virus receiving treatment with agranulocytosis.
After 11 days of treatment with Filgrastim, the patient developed pancreatitis as well as progressive elevation of transaminases due to nausea, vomiting, which was discontinued and piperacillin tazo was changed to cefepime.
Bone marrow puncture was performed and signs of bone marrow necrosis were observed.
Among the causes of spinal cord necrosis, the infectious one was investigated because similar structures were observed in the aspirate study, since treatment with caspoline was initiated, which was subsequently withdrawn by negative panfungal PCR.
No neoplastic infiltrate was observed in the biopsy, ruling out malignant pathology, a CT scan was performed for extension study of a solid tumor that was negative.
Due to the persistence of the anti-catheterization only, previous analytical tests were carried out, showing that the LDH value is normal, indicating that spinal cord necrosis could be an acute process related to fluconazole and maintenance of drug levels.
Finally, the patient was referred to as acute spinal cord necrosis paradoxical to the administration of granulocytic colony stimulating factor.
