Anamnesis 42 year old male, born in Pakistan (live in Spain for 15 years).
She did not report any drug allergies or toxic habits.
He had presented a right▁orbital fracture three months ago with posterior trigeminal neuralgia.
She presented pruritic rash on trunk and extremities, high fever and▁malaise of 15 days of evolution.
The patient denied drug consumption in the last two months, travel abroad or risky sexual relations.
The rest of the cohabitants did not present cutaneous lesions or symptoms.
Physical examination and the patient was subfebrile (37.5c axillary), there was a notorious swelling of the face, hands and feet, as well as a morbid-luform rash on the trunk and extremities, with no
In addition, cervical, axillary and inguinal lymphadenopathies were present.
The rest of the physical examination showed no alterations.
ALT, ALT, AST, ALT, blood tests showed 22.24 x109/l) with 35% atypical lymphocytes, 15% atypical lymphocytes, (3.4 x109/l) and elevated liver enzymes (AST 77/l, 179).
Bilirubinemia, prothrombin time and creatininemia were within normal ranges.
Given the elevation of transaminases, an abdominal ultrasound showed an alexial vesicle with thickened walls, perivesicular edema and two lymphadenopathies at the level of the hepatic hilium.
Chest X-ray showed no abnormalities.
Serology for syphilis hepatitis B, HIV, parvo, Epstein-Strack virus, measles and Herpes virus 6 were negative.
Skin biopsy showed an epidermis with changes in spongiosis.
In the dermis, perivascular▁lympho-histocytic inflammatory infiltrate and occasional▁eosinophils were observed.
Diagnosis Despite repeatedly denying the intake of drugs, we found in the patient's medical history carbamazepine ingestion for trigeminal neuritis three weeks before the onset of the clinical picture.
Based on the history of drug intake, clinical characteristics and laboratory findings, we diagnosed DRESS syndrome secondary to carbamazepine.
Treatment The patient had already stopped carbamazepine two weeks before.
Given the intense general involvement and hepatic impairment, we started prednisone 1 mg/kg/oral associated with permanent baths 3/10,000 triad to acetone triad acetone cream.
The evolution was favorable, with resolution of fever, exanthema and facial and acral edema, being discharged one week later.
Analytically, normalization of transaminase levels was observed in the following four weeks.
The patient continued on a descending prednisone regimen for 3 months until it was discontinued.
One year later, the patient remains asymptomatic.
