Patient of 19 years attending the Primary Care consultation for continuous cough of three weeks of evolution.
Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) 19-year-old Spanish patient, university student.
Personal history of right bundle branch block of the lower limbs, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis and mild asthma.
She has no family history of interest.
Treatment with albuterol on demand.
No drug allergies.
Eat alcoholic beverages occasionally.
Non-smoker.
The patient comes to the clinic for dry cough of three weeks of increasing intensity that interferes with night rest.
It increases with exercise.
rhinorrhea.
He did not present dyspnea and auscultation was normal.
Partial improvement using albuterol on demand.
Given the personal history, it was decided to start budesonide 160 mcg/form acid midazolam dihydrate 4.5 mcg 2 inhalations every 12 hours.
It resolves two months later by coughing with green sputum and fever of two days of evolution.
Upon auscultation, the patient presented crackles on the left base, so Amoxicillin 875mg/ clavulanic acid 125mg was prescribed every 8 hours for 7 days with improvement of the symptoms.
Despite this, she comes again three weeks later because cough persists, with increased access in the last week and with whitish expectoration.
That same morning hemoptoic expectoration.
In addition, the patient developed a new fever, with a predominance of evening sweats and night sweats.
Pain in the anterior part of the right hemithorax of pleuritic type.
No dyspnea.
In addition, deepening the anamnesis, parents report loss of 6-7 kg in recent months.
He hasn't traveled.
Location: good general condition, normohydrated, normoperfused, eupneic at rest.
Constants: TA: 114/59, FC 104lpm, SatO2 99%, T 37.8o.
Cardiopulmonary arrest: mental, without murmurs.
Vesicular mucus preserved without added noises.
An urgent X-ray was requested, which showed extensive cavitary lesion in the right upper lobe with air-fluid level.
Others smaller at the base.
Alveolo-interstitial notchillyl infiltrate in the left hemithorax, suggestive of bronchogenic dissemination.
She was referred to the hospital emergency department for further tests and evaluation by pulmonology.
The most relevant results of the tests performed are: analytical: C-reactive protein 142, procalcitonin 0.07, leukocytes 14590/μL with neutrophilia 93%.
Hemoglobin 12 g/dl, hematocrit 36%, corpuscular volume 7fL, platelet count 43μL.
Sputum smear: DNA from Mycobacterium tuberculosis was detected with sensitivity to all first-line drugs tested.
During his stay in the emergency room, the patient presented with good general condition, hemodynamically stable and poor sputum, with a small number of episodes of irregular sputum.
The patient has good family support, adequate understanding of the diagnosis.
Claiming prevention of transmission of the disease, discharge with treatment and isolation from the domicile is decided.
Family and community approach Full nuclear family structure, patient with both parents and older brother.
Although at first the patient was anxious at home given the possibility of disease transmission, there was at all times good family support, which promoted treatment at home.
Clinical judgment (listed problems, differential diagnosis) cavitated pulmonary tuberculosis.
The case presented several differential diagnoses: bronchial hyperactivity or respiratory tract infection.
Other pathologies that present hemoptysis, such as bronchogenic carcinoma, cavitated lesions, with infectious causes (Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Nocardiosis,
Plan of action and evolution The patient began treatment at home with rifampicin 150/isoniazide 75 currently (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) (+) medication, then with rifampicin 300 mg/iso(4/24h) and rifampicin (150 mg/iso) for two months;
Respiratory isolation occurs in the first month of life.
Accreditation was scheduled to see the patient a week for revision.
She continued with occasional fever and cough.
Anxiety towards the picture, especially because their 22-year-old mother and brother underwent the IGRA (as a result of the release of interferon gamma) test, which was positive for both, and therefore felt guilty.
Seen up to now on four occasions by▁Pneumology.
Good evolution of the clinical picture, occasional cough.
Laboratory tests were performed in all consultations, with improvement of acute phase reactants, negative HIV and hepatitis serology, and new sputum smear at two months negative for AFB.
A control X-ray at four and a half months showed significant improvement, with disappearance of infiltrates in the left lung.
The right lung is in regression, with centric aspect, persisting cavity image in the right upper lobe.
Pending further control by pulmonology.
The IGRA test was performed on the whole family, being positive for their mother and brother.
The father will be re-examined at eight weeks, remaining negative.
Active tuberculosis was ruled out in the mother and brother, performing chest X-ray and sputum culture.
They started chemoprophylactic treatment with isoniazid 300mg/24h for 9 months, with adequate tolerance.
