Anamnesis A 47-year-old woman presented with progressive holocraneal pulsatile headache of four months duration and blurred vision.
Personal history: hypertension, right ear cholesteatoma and anxiety syndrome treated with▁benzodiazepines.
The patient complained of a headache that had progressively increased over the past few weeks.
It was characterized by a clear worsening when moving from decubitus to sitting position, subsequently yielding spontaneously.
Sometimes he woke up at night.
The patient also had transient atrophic cough for 15 days without specifying the side, episodes of visual darkening of minutes in duration, and photopsia when getting out of bed.
She had no symptoms of systemic disease, known malignancies, anorexia or weight loss.
No cognitive impairment, behavior change, head trauma or fever.
He had good sphincter control.
Physical examination revealed no focality.
There were no signs of radiculopathies or malformations.
Pathological examination showed bilateral papilledema, so he was admitted to Neurology for study with suspected venous sinus thrombosis.
▁Complementary tests • Complete analysis with erythrocyte sedimentation rate and thyroid hormones: normal.
• Chest X-ray and electrocardiogram performed on admission were normal.
• Serology for herpes group virus, hepatotropic virus, human immunodeficiency virus, syphilis, Borrelia and Brucella was also normal.
• Brain computed tomography (CT) showed an increase in the size of the entire ventricular system as the only anomaly, with a decrease in cortical grooves.
• Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain with venous phase confirmed the previous findings without showing any other abnormality, so the first diagnostic suspicion was ruled out.
• It was decided then to perform a lumbar puncture for the study, which presented, to our surprise, great difficulties, because although the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) began to flow at an adequate pressure (15 cm H2O),
The material extracted was dense and coagulated at room temperature.
The ADBC was x chromosome/dl-gelatinous, highlighting in the urgent cytological an hyperproteinorrhachia of 539 mg/dl, with rest of normal values: glycorrachya 92 mg/dl (glucemia 01.4 mg/dl).
2.2 cm, 4 cm, approximated a lesion at the level of CSF extraction, performing a complete spinal MRI that effectively showed an intradural extramedullary tumor mass in a horsetail x 1.2 cm.
This lesion occupied the entire spinal canal at L3 level with intermediate signal at T1, intermediate to hyperintense signal at T2, and intense intravenous gadolinium enhancement.
T2-weighted MRI showed a space-occupying lesion at L3 level, with caudal hyperintensity in horsetail.
There were no images suggesting the presence of hemorrhage or mucin, or hemosiderin ring.
Diagnosis Froin's syndrome and papilledema as the first manifestation of a spinal tumor Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment consisted of dexamethasone 8 mg every 6 h and mannitol 20% 125 cc/12 h i.v.
for 48 hours, with subsequent programmed surgical intervention and intraoperative neurophysiological control, in which a high density mass encompassing several roots of the horsetail was observed.
Exeresis was subtotal because of the impossibility of dissecting the tumor without damaging nerve roots.
Histological examination revealed a diagnosis of myxopapillary erythema.
At present, the patient has remained with headache and complete resolution of papilledema, highlighting only the exploration 4+/5 right lower limb with reflexes of asymptomatic myocarditis.
