Doctoral advice in mental health.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) 81-year-old patient with a history of AF, DM-II, hypertension, MPLD, hypothyroidism.
Treatment with sintrom 4 mg, enalapril 20 mg/ hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg/12h, simvastatin 20 mg, Eutirox 100 mg mcg 2h, carvedilol 6.25 mg/24 mg, gliclaz
Cholecystectomized.
She attends the primary care consultation accompanied by her son, nervous and distressed, referring that for a week she has visual impairments of nighttime nature: the &#8722;vey worms that leave the bed.
The patient usually comes to consultation for sintrom control and other underlying diseases and always comes alone.
On the other hand, for weeks she has had dreams associated with dysuria, polyuria and tenesmus of the bladder, as well as dysthermic sensation without having used the thermometer.
No other accompanying clinic.
Physical examination: Adequate general condition, conscious, oriented, collaborating.
Arterial hypertension 130/70.
Temperature, 36 oC.
Glasgow 15.
Normal reactive isochoric hairs.
No dysarthria.
No deviation of oral commissure.
Force, sensitivity and mobility were preserved in all four limbs.
Stored march.
Romberg was normal.
When deepening into manifestations, they only occur when they wake up at night and disappear when light is lighted.
I don't know that that's not real.
It has changed from room to bed as an avoidance mechanism.
Eupneic at rest, well hydrated and infused.
Cardiac arrest: tones at 80 bpm.
The vesicular eruption is conserved: mucus, without overlapping sounds.
Sat O2 97%.
Globulous abdomen, distended.
No pain, no abdominal defense.
AHR present.
Normal bilateral RPP.
Lower limbs: no edema, signs of CVI.
A test is performed in which positive leukocytes and nitrites are obtained.
Laboratory tests were requested, including blood count, biochemical tests (including hepatic and renal function), CRP, urine and culture tests, thyroid, vitamin B12, folic acid, trebponema glycosylatedum, h
Family and community approach Patient widowed for about 10 years living alone.
Independent for BADL.
She has a child who lives in the same city, on her side, and blocks with her wife and her 2 children aged 9 and 13.
They have a very good relationship between them and see each other daily.
Clinical judgement (listed problems, differential diagnosis) Uncomplicated urinary tract infection
Differential diagnosis: onset of dementia, psychiatric disorder, cerebral LOE, side effect medication, fever, epilepsy, renal failure... Action plan and evolution An analytical was requested as previously indicated.
Amoxicillin 875 mg/clavulanic acid 125 mg/8h was prescribed for 7 days and hypnotic treatment was modified: decrease for 4-5 days to 1⁄2 p1⁄2 pylorazepam with Lmetazepam and start with 1⁄2razepam
Watch for fever or new symptoms.
Antibiotic treatment was initiated one week later and the hypnotic treatment was modified to obtain the result of the laboratory tests requested.
Blood tests were normal except in the systematic urine test, which indicated urinary tract infection, which was already known to be positive for E.C. sensitive to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid.
This time the patient went to the clinic alone and reported clinical improvement of dysuria as well as disappearance on the second day of starting treatment of the visual disturbance clinic for which she had consulted.
He had returned to sleep in his usual room.
