A 37-year-old Moroccan male with no history.
She came to the emergency room for a fever of 38.5oC, weakness, myalgias and watery diarrhea with 5-6 stools daily, without blood, for a week.
He was discharged with symptomatic treatment without antibiotics.
Two days later and having ceded the diarrhea, she consulted due to persistent fever with marked asthenia.
On physical examination, only pain on palpation of the right hypochondrium was evident, with Murphy dudoso.
neutrophil count > ml; total bilirubin 1 to 2.17 mg/dL (direct 0.89, indirect 1.28), AST 50->70 mu/ml, ALT 60-109 m/
Renal function, hemoglobin, platelets and coagulation were normal.
Siste with two crosses of urobilinogen proteins.
Abdominal ultrasound: suggestive of acute Findings without other abnormalities.
General surgery indicates observation and reassessment, reluctant to intervene in the doubtful clinical-radiological correlation.
Due to the absence of improvement and worsening of the laboratory test, a cholecystectomy, a normal gallbladder without signs of acute colitis, was finally performed.
The patient presented fever for 5 days despite treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, without any hemodynamic deterioration or focality.
Blood cultures, urine culture, negative Clostridium difficile toxins.
She was referred to Internal Medicine for a chest X-ray (normal) negative for IGRA test, and serologies, with the following results: IgG positive and IgM negative for CMV and EBV; hepatitis positive, HIV,
Abdominal CT was requested but the patient was discharged before the procedure, without further follow-up.
Finally, the Anatomy: "Colecyst chronic mild pathology.
Bilio-iliac material adhered to the mucosa".
Perihepatic inflammation can generate signs and confusions such as thickening of the wall, with positive ultrasound Murphy, which in our case was debated by macroscopic examination and then anatomopathological examination.
However, although extremely rare, cases of acute acalculous fever have been described, whether alone or not with typical forms of pneumonia, hepatitis or flu-like fever.
As in liver involvement, the formation of central granulomas with fibrin sealants and is characteristic, and the bacteria can be isolated in the surgical specimen.
