We report the case of a 72-year-old woman with documented betalactamic allergy.
His personal history included hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis treated with▁steroids for one year, deep venous thrombosis, hypothyroidism, atrial fibrillation.
She underwent home treatment with levothyroxine 50 mcg, warfarin 4 mg, furosemide 40 mg, bisoprolol 2.5 mg, lactulose, lasartan 25 mg, bilateral knee replacement surgery and cholecystectomy.
She underwent surgery for symptomatic severe degenerative aortic stenosis, a biological aortic prosthesis was placed and presented postoperative complications with ischemic stroke with mild residual hemiparesis, acute renal failure and acute respiratory failure requiring admission to the intensive care unit.
After one month of hospitalization, ten days after hospital discharge, the patient was again admitted to the Internal Medicine Department due to heart failure with dyspnea and decreased diuresis.
At that admission, the treatment was adjusted, bladder catheterization was performed and an echocardiogram was performed, which confirmed the normal functioning of the bioprosthesis and no findings of interest were found.
She was discharged and the next day she came to the emergency department with a fever peak of 40oC with intense shivering and chills.
A systematic urine analysis was performed, showing more than 500 leukocytes per field, positive nitrites and more than 500 leukocytes per field.
Once diagnosed with urinary infection, treatment was initiated with cotrimoxazole 160/800 mg every 12 hours for 7 days.
During the following two months, the patient complained of intermittent fever and chills with a predominance of vespertine. She came to her primary care physician who prescribed amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875/125 mg every day.
Three months after surgery, the patient came back to the emergency department with dyspnea, edema of the lower limbs with transudate and decreased diuresis for one week.
Physical examination revealed blood pressure of 130 bpm, heart rate of 90 bpm, dyspnea at rest and basal oxygen saturation of 90%.
He highlighted jugular engorgement without hepatojugular reflux.
Acceptable general condition, oriented, collaborating, mild mucocutaneous auscultation, cardiac auscultation limbs arrhynea without audible murmurs, pulmonary auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur, mild edema.
Blood analysis showed normocytic normochromic anemia (10g/dl of hemoglobin) with normal white series, normal coagulation and biochemical with CRP 51.60 mg/ml, high-sensitivity troponin and NT-proBNP level of 0.031 ng/ml.
A chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly and vascular malformation.
Electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation at 75 beats per minute, normal axis and incomplete right bundle branch block.
With these findings, the patient was admitted to the Cardiology Department due to heart failure in a patient recently submitted to valve replacement, and depletive treatment was initiated.
Once on the ward, a transthoracic echocardiogram showed a preserved ejection fraction, severe tricuspid insufficiency and mild mitral regurgitation and maximum gradient protuberty of 89/56 mmHg.
The finding of elevated gradients in the prosthetic valve was proposed to perform transesophageal echocardiography that the patient rejects.
At 7 days the patient began fever of 39oC with chills and tiritone, hemocultive and urocultive were extracted.
Differential diagnosis The patient has a very recent history of valve replacement surgery that cannot be ignored.
In the differential diagnosis of heart failure in patients with prosthetic valves, we would have to assess a possible thrombosis of the valve, prosthetic valve cushion1, valve orifice that reduces inflammatory pronouncement to endocarditis body surface area.
Valve thrombosis would be ruled out because it usually gives symptoms of acute pulmonary edema and the patient presented a very subacute clinical picture, besides being anticoagulated with warfarin at all times.
Prosthetic mismatch is typical of clinical presentation immediately after late surgery, years after stent implantation.
nosocomial infections due to fever accompanied by heart failure and awaiting hemocultives, the possibility of bioprosthesis infection should be suspected, which would be defined as early (less than one year after the intervention) and recent.
In addition, she has received steroid treatment for one year so we can consider her immunosuppressed patient, an added risk factor for the acquisition of infection.
As a gateway, if contamination occurred during surgery, microorganisms from the patient's skin flora, personnel, or the circulation system of the extracorporeal Staphylococcus aureus (Staphylococcus airemorph spp.) and Corfinelus
In this case it seems unlikely since the course of the infection has been subacute and in these cases they usually debut with more aggressive symptoms.
If we consider that contamination has been at stake microorganisms with post-operative dissemination that have a vascular catheter, surgical wound, lung or urinary tract as the entry point.
As the most frequent microorganisms, coagulase-negative staphylococci, Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus spp, viridans group streptococci, and HACEK group microorganisms should be discarded in order of frequency.
Not to forget the endocarditis that course with negative hemocultives in which we would need to request serology for Coxiella spp, Bartonella spp, Mycoplasma spp, Chlamydia spp and Brucella spp, although they are more typical late interventions.
Enterococcal infections were isolated in cultures of hemocultives and Enterococcus faecalis was isolated.
Since the patient had betalactamic allergy, antibiotic treatment with daptomycin 10 mg/kg/day and gentamicin 1 mg/kg every 8 hours was initiated.
A transesophageal echocardiogram was performed, which was diagnostic when a periprosthetic aortic abscess was visualized above the valve plane with flow passage and vegetation of 15x6 mm in the aortic bioprosthesis.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: periprosthetic aortic abscess above the valve plane.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: vegetation of 15x6 mm in the aortic bioprosthesis.
Surgery for valve replacement is proposed that the patient rejects, so conservative attitude is adopted maintaining antibiotic treatment.
The patient evolved favorably, the fever disappeared and the heart failure clinic improved.
Control transthoracic echocardiography at 15 days of treatment maintained prostatic gradients of 70 mmHg, mild mitral regurgitation and mild tricuspid regurgitation.
She underwent antibiotic treatment with daptomycin for 8 weeks, with disappearance of periprosthetic abscess and vegetation on control transesophageal echocardiography performed at the end of treatment.
The patient remained stable, with no fever or heart failure symptoms.
Clinical case: Early prosthetic infective endocarditis caused by Enterococcus faecalis on aortic bioprosthesis of probable nosocomial urinary origin.
