Female, 74 years old.
Allergy to penicillins.
Diabetes Mellitus type 2 in treatment with oral antidiabetics with good control.
He came to the emergency room for right costal discomfort of 15 days of evolution.
Initially treated with analgesia and later as condensing respiratory infection (levofloxacin 500mg/24h VO).
Since no improvement was found, the patient came to the emergency room of another hospital due to fever with thiritone and chills.
There, a chest X-ray ruled out pneumonia and an abdominal CT scan, which described an accurate chest lesion dependent on the hepatic segment VII, of about 6cm in diameter thoracic and abdominal with posterior bleaching tissues TC, wall.
These findings are derived to our hospital to assess drainage.
The patient denied travelling abroad, insect bites or drinking non-potable water.
Living with a dog.
Since the patient had fever and elevated APR with deterioration of general status, empirical treatment was initiated with Ciprofloxacin 400mg/8h and Metronidazole 500mg/8h IV.
With the data we had and, after reassessing the abdominal CT images with the Radiology service, we conclude that the collection was sub-phase sputum smear microscopy and direct drainage catheter was placed in bleb area for microbiology service.
On the same day of placement of the drainage catheter, they warn of Microbiology due to suspicion in the gram image of possible Actinomyces (hifas and hiphae heifers) linezolid 600mg/12h.
The clinical manifestations were favorable, with disappearance of fever, analytical normalization and improvement of the general condition.
Finally, the presence of Actinomyces is confirmed by PCR, so the antibiotic treatment that will continue until completing 6 months was simplified.
The importance of this case lies in thinking about rare microorganisms in the etiology of intra-abdominal abscesses to be able to request their culture and thus be able to treat it.
In our patient, the only risk factor for this type of infection is the very immunosuppression of Diabetes Mellitus.
