fever onset: 74 year old male, without CFA, who consulted for abdominal colic, epigastric pain of 24 hours duration irradiating to the left flank and chills, with onset of fever
Pathological history: Ex-smoker, hypertension, DM-II (poorly controlled and secondary colitis) and LBP.
Severe multifactorial vasculitis with renal involvement (stage III, under treatment with erythropoietin).
HIV/AIDS infection (sexually transmitted infection) of 18 years of evolution; multiple lines of treatment for failure and poor tolerance; currently treated with EFV+ATV, with undetectable viral load and CD.
TB in adolescence.
ACxFA was treated with anticoagulation and beta-blockers.
Multiple repeat TIA.
Patients with a diagnosis of bi-chamber burns due to complete AVB.
Long-standing chronic ischemic heart disease; double by-pass - coronary (year 1993); ACTP on 3 occasions 6 stents; EF 25% with cardiomyopathy and inferior posterior functional akinesia; heart failure
EF.TA 152/55; FC 88x"; FR 20X"; Ta 38.4oC; Sat O2 basal 93%; GCS 15/15.
CA: TCR, without murmurs/roces; without signs of CHF, well perfused.
AR: MVC, without noises.
LRN: conscious and oriented, without acute focalities.
ABD: blandom and depressible, with defense in the left hypochondrium, without ascites.
Skin: regular general condition, normal color and normohydrated.
▁Complementary tests.
General analysis: Hb 12.9, Hto.
37%.
136,000 platelets.
15,410 leukocytes (10% bands).
PCR 195; pro-calcitonin 15.1.
Biochemistry: glucose 388, Cr 1.7; ionogram normal; total bilirubin 1.3 (direct 0.4), AST 25.8, ALT 12.6, GGT 81, FA 127, amylase 195, lipase 60, CK 17
INR 2.8, Quick 28%.
Troponin-T 0.01.
ECG: ACxFA with VF of 90x, without signs of acute myocardial ischemia.
Urine study: 0 leukocytes/field, 0kidneys/field; amilasuria 618.
Abdominal CT (stent): normal bile duct; pancreas within normal limits; image suggestive of splenic infarction.
Abdominal ultrasound: a spleen with a geographic hypoechoic involvement of about 5 cm in the lower pole with absence of vascularization, compatible with infarction; rest of the examination, normal.
Transesophageal echocardiography: no images suggestive of endocarditis, valves or implantation electrodes were observed.
Antibiotics (2, pre-treatment): Klebsiella pneumoniae was isolated at 72 hours after antibiotic treatment with susceptibility < 0.25 to ciprofloxacin.
Ev: Low initial diagnostic orientation of possible acute pancreatitis (not related to antiretroviral), post-extraction of two hemocultives, antibiotic coverage with parenteral imipenem was started.
The differential diagnosis with ischemia month and biliary pathology was also proposed.
Subsequently, the imaging tests showed splenic infarction and given the result of the haemocultive test (positive for Klebsiella pneumoniae in HIV/AIDS patient), it was attributed to infectious etiology (and not atrial fibrillation).
The patient was admitted to the hospital with an infectious focus discarded the bile duct, the colon and endocarditis, completing antibiotic treatment for 15 days (inherently with quinolones).
Diagnostic hypothesis.
Splenic infarction of probable septic origin (non-affiliated angina) in a patient with HIV/AIDS.
