Background, current disease and physical examination A 25-year-old male presented to the cardiology department after an episode of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response while performing exercise on the beach and was treated with pharmacological cardioversion to emergency.
The patient had experienced episodes of seizures related to intense efforts for a year.
He did not present functional class deterioration or other cardiovascular symptoms.
Personal history: In preparation to oppose firefighters.
Labelled episodes of anxiety with chest pain, sensation of dyspnea and acute elevation of blood pressure figures.
No other cardiovascular risk factor or toxic consumption.
Mallory Weiss syndrome.
No medication.
Family history: one patient had died due to transposition of the great vessels and communication with a brother; another brother had died in utero due to aortic arch interruption and had a brother with pre-excitation syndrome.
Physical location: conscious, oriented, normocolored, eupneic.
Normal phenotype.
Thigh blood pressure of 218/110 mmHg right upper limb, 169/86 mmHg left upper limb.
Peripheral pseudoaneurysms present.
Epilepsy of the lung with preserved vesicular murmur, cardiac auscultation: proto-mesosystolic murmur proto-mesosystolic in aortic focus, and a left auscultatory border grade II on LV also in audable focus.
Abdomen and lower limbs were unremarkable.
▁Complementary tests Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm with normal cardiac axis.
Presence of incomplete right bundle branch block and signs suggestive of left ventricular hypertrophy.
Chest X-ray showed no cardiomegaly, no pleural effusion or pulmonary infiltrates.
Coastal flies are seen.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: mild septal hypertrophy, mild mitral anterolateral valve hypertrophy with trivial mitral regurgitation.
In the supraspinatus window, there was an acceleration of the flow and gradient of 86.6 mmHg in the descending thoracic aorta below the exit of the left▁subclavian artery.
The rest of the study including left atrial dimensions and left ventricular diastolic function was normal.
Left▁subclavian angiography - breast: presence of aortic coarctation distal to the ostium of the left▁subclavian artery with a reduction of the aortic lumen to 0.6 cm in diameter, with hypertrophy of the left coar intercostal arteries
Magnetic resonance angiography: saccular aneurysm adjacent to the bifurcation of the right middle cerebral artery.
Normal karyotype, absence of selection 22q11.2.
Clinical diagnosis of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was established on admission and compatible findings with descending aorta dilation were made on a cardiology ward to complete the study and decide on a therapeutic approach.
Abdominal CT angiography confirmed coarctation distal to the ostium of the left▁subclavian artery.
Given the association of this aortic pathology with cerebrovascular malformations, it was decided to perform a cerebral magnetic resonance angiography, which discovered an aneurysm in the middle cerebral artery.
In addition, given the family history, karyotype and FISH hybridization technique were performed in one of the deletions associated with this type of pathology, both of which were normal.
With the diagnoses described, the case was presented in a clinical session, opting for surgical intervention in the first place the cerebral aneurysm and later surgical correction of the aortic coarctation.
The patient was operated successfully and is currently asymptomatic.
Main diagnosis Aortic coarctation in descending thoracic aorta Intracranial aneurysm in secondary middle cerebral artery paroxysmal AF, mild MI with PVM Hipertis in clinical context
