A 67-year-old male with a history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, left▁subclavian artery stenosis post-hypothyroidism, squamous cell carcinoma intervened in 2013 and possible panuveitis of the left eye in 2016 was admitted.
Current treatment with simvastatin, levothyroxine and atenolol.
She came to the emergency room for pain, swelling, and increased temperature in her right knee three days after a vacation.
No fever thermometered or associated dysthermic sensation.
She suffered a progressive increase in her back-lumbar pain, which she had previously been treated with local heat resulting in her maturation.
In addition, his relatives had noticed a fall in the right eyelid, so they had come three days before to the emergency room and were diagnosed by incomplete neurology of Sd.Horner, requesting MRI for study.
No neurological focus or visual symptoms.
In the Emergency Department, arthrocentesis was performed, with isolation S. a tapeworm.
Drainage (atrotomy+sinovectomy) was performed and treatment with ampicillin was started.
During admission, the patient presented fever up to 38.5oC with torpid evolution of the knee and positive cultures for S.a. with no other negative cultures, so a new open surgical lavage was performed, with good subsequent evolution,
During admission, the patient was diagnosed with meningitis, ventriculomegaly and ventriculodiscitis T8-T10 negative, associated epidural mass, positive for multiplex PCR for S.a., rectal cancer, multiplex.
These findings were re-introduced intravenous antibiotics with penicillin G and linezolid due to the good penetrance of the latter in CSF.
Finally, the patient has good clinical and analytical evolution, so she is discharged with treatment with oral Linezolid, diagnosed with invasive disease by Streptocococitis is associated with meningeal involvement and joint involvement.
In a subsequent outpatient review, the patient presented asthenia, paresthesias, loss of ROTS. Therefore, EMG was performed with a diagnosis of axonal sensory-motor polyneuropathy, probably secondary to linezolid anemia.
In successive reviews, there were no clinical or laboratory recurrences.
