A 48-year-old male with no known drug allergies or toxic habits, with a history of community-acquired pneumonia, who came to the emergency department for two weeks of evolution consisting of fever of asthenia vetino C.
During the last two weeks he has consulted in the Emergency Department on several occasions for this symptomatology, being discharged with a diagnosis of febrile syndrome of short evolution and having extracted hemocultives that for the moment do not detect any growth of microorganisms.
She denied ENT, respiratory, digestive, cutaneous or urological symptoms.
As epidemiological background we can highlight that the patient lives in rural areas and has regular contact with correctly vaccinated dogs.
The physical examination showed an acceptable general state of health, conscious, oriented and collaborating.
There are no palpable peripheral adenopathies or neck stiffness.
The patient was eupneic at rest,▁tolerating decubitus position, afflicted (35.8o) and hemodynamically stable with blood pressure levels of 125/68 mmHg.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed rhythmic tones at 77 bpm, with no murmurs, frictions or extracts, and preserved vesicular murmur, with no pathological sounds.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible, with no masses or organomegaly.
In the lower extremities, petechial lesions without edema or signs of thrombosis are noteworthy.
Blood glucose, renal function, normal range and C-reactive protein 104 mg/L were measured.
The hemogram showed hemoglobin 14.4 g/dl, leukocytes 10.700/mm3 and platelets 166,000/mm3.
The chest X-ray showed no remarkable pleuroparenchymal alterations.
In the emergency department, it is classified as a febrile syndrome of intermediate duration and empirical antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin 875 mg/clavulanic acid 125 mg every 8 hours is continued.
Differential diagnosis In summary, this is a patient with intermediate fever without clear focus except cutaneous manifestations in the lower limbs, so we will focus on the differential diagnosis around fever of unknown origin 20%, although the etiology is unknown in some cases.
Considering the epidemiological context of the patient, one of the causes to consider would be the Mediterranean spotted fever, transmitted by patients with diseases and caused by fungal keratitis, migraines, fever, ulcers caused by a cold sore throat,
Other pathologies to be considered in the epidemiological context of the patient are Coxiella burni as causal agent of Q fever, Brucella melitensis as responsible for human brucellosis and Leishmania spp.
Another possible diagnosis in a patient with fever of probable infectious origin with cutaneous manifestations is meningitis caused by Neisseria meningitidis, which is characterized by fever, headache, nausea, vomiting, petechial lesions on ankles and mucous membranes.
However, this diagnosis was ruled out because our patient did not show changes in mental status or signs of meningism.
Primary infection by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in those cases in which it is symptomatic, usually manifests as a typically maculopapular rash, with spread to palms and arthralgia, headache, lymphadenopathy, feet.
In the differential diagnosis of syndrome with equianal lesions in the lower limbs, we would have to assess a possible infectious endocarditis with hemocultives negative, occurring with Coxiregella fever, yeast infection, fungal infection, Mycobacterium tuberculosis spp., whigion
If we focus on petechial lesions in both lower limbs, we should rule out numerous pathologies, some more common such as primary cutaneous disorders, vasculitis, systemic lupus erythematosus, coagulation disorders, and others less as intravascular embolism or immune malformations.
Within the clinical picture, other possibilities that spread herpesvirus 6, which should be considered once the previous ones are ruled out, would be intra-abdominal abscesses, monobutteric virus, adenovirus and hepatitis, sometimes can attend to extra-abdominal abscesses.
On the other hand, it should be considered that the origin may be tumor, a common fact in leukemias, carcinomas (especially colon, kidney, hepatocellular carcinoma or metastatic lesions), sarcomas and atrial myxoma.
The emergency room visits 10 days after the appearance of hemocultivals Capno de canimorsus sensitive to ampicillin, so the new patient is contacted
At this moment we are faced with a patient with a febrile syndrome of four weeks of evolution with affectation of the general state, weight loss and asthenia that has been accompanied since three days of dyspnea and cough.
On physical examination, the patient was hemodynamically stable, with blood pressure of 113/70 mmHg, tachypnea, and 97% did not use accessory muscles.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed rhythmic tones at 102 bpm with systolic murmur pannea III-IV/VI, and globally decreased vesicular murmur without pathological noises.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible, with no masses or organomegaly.
In lower limbs, petechial lesions persist, without edema or signs of thrombosis.
associated with these two findings, transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) was performed, showing the existence of vegetations on the native aortic and mitral valve suggestive of infective endocarditis, with severe valvular destruction (severe aortic regurgitation and mitral regurgitation).
The result of echocardiography in conjunction with hemocultives establishes the diagnosis of endocarditis, as it meets a major criterion and three minor Duke criteria.
She underwent emergency surgery, after cleaning and excision of devitalized and infected tissues, double mitral and aortic valve replacement was performed with implantation of two biological valve prostheses.
In the immediate postoperative period, the patient developed a third-degree atrioventricular block with transient dependence, so that finally definitive implant placement DDD was performed without incidents.
Microbiological culture of the valves was negative, but in the samples analyzed by genomic analysis by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequencing of the gene 16/4s of ribonucleic acid (RNA Capim) patient receives positive control.
After the end of this treatment, ultrasound control was performed, showing both normal functioning prostheses together with pleural and mild pericardial effusion.
Given the good clinical evolution, the patient is discharged home.
A week later, the patient consulted the emergency department again for two days of evolution consisting of general▁malaise accompanied by fever of up to 39° and cold sweating.
She did not report any focal symptoms in the interview.
She denied respiratory, digestive or urological symptoms.
On physical examination, the patient was hemodynamically stable with blood pressure of 115/72 mmHg, eupneic at rest, 98%.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed rhythmic tones at 92 bpm and decreased vesicular murmur on the left lung base without pathological sounds.
Healed surgical wound, stable sternum without suppuration.
Lower extremities without edema or signs of thrombosis.
Blood glucose, renal function and creatinine levels ranged from 71 mg/L.
The hemogram showed hemoglobin 10.2 g/dl, leukocytes 7.830/mm3 and platelet count.000/mm3.
In summary, we present the case of a patient who underwent valve replacement four weeks ago for infectious endocarditis caused by C. canimorsus and implantation of a feverish syndrome without focality.
The patient's clinical picture and history were recorded. Blood cultures were extracted and transthoracic echocardiography was performed, with a similar result to that performed before discharge.
At this time, a new differential diagnosis is established, evaluating as the most probable etiologies recurrence of endocarditis, surgical site infection, bed infection and the development of a pleuropericardial syndrome.
The absence of analytical data supporting the infectious etiology, the negative serial hemocultives and the fact that the patient had undergone directed antibiotic treatment for four weeks rule out an infectious entity as the first diagnostic option.
The presence of small left pleural effusion, pericardial effusion and the absence of vegetations on ultrasound, led to the conclusion that the most probable diagnosis was the development of pleuropericardial syndrome.
This disorder that affects both pericardial and pericardial effusions frequently occurs after cardiac surgery and is characterized by left pleural effusion.
The clinical diagnosis of febrile syndrome probably caused by a pleuropericardial syndrome was made with prednisone 60 mg/24h for three days with good tolerance and apparent resolution of the fever, so she was discharged with corticoid treatment.
The patient was readmitted ten days later with poor general condition, tending to hypotension, dysneic at rest and with a QSOFA score of 2.
The examination revealed the presence of a decease lesion in the first pulp of the right lower limb.
An acute renal failure with creatinine of 2 mg/dl and lactic acid of 6.1 mmol/L is noteworthy analytically.
The hemogram showed leukocytosis of 47,360/mm3 with neutrophilia and thrombopenia 20,000/mm3.
A transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography was performed, which showed an image compatible with vegetation in the mitral-aortic region with involvement of the tricuspid leaflet, causing septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal septal defect and fistulization at the origin level.
These findings are classified as septic and cardiogenic shock secondary to infective endocarditis with extensive involvement of the mitral and aortic valves.
In the following hours, the patient progressed to multiorgan failure refractory to fluids, amines, antibiotic therapy and mechanical ventilation, and finally died due to asystole.
Final diagnosis: Infectious fungal endocarditis on a mitral-aortic valve caused by CapnoÆs anomaly.
