Ángel is an 18-year-old adolescent who attends the prevention program indicated for adolescents and families, Project Support Men Madrid.
Angel's parents ask for help in the device for their child's drug use and aggressive behavior that they manifest within (sometimes has assaulted both parents) and outside the home, in addition to being robbed of violence.
Adolescents do not have any perception of problems related to substance use or aggressive behavior.
Description of the situation The reason for the adolescent's request for care is that from the center we could not be convicted and admitted to prison.
I intended to say that he is "good people, who never did anything wrong, since theft was due to the fact that at that time he had no money and that the woman could not give him back".
Besides, from the center, we had to tell the judge that he does not consume drugs, otherwise he smokes his own pores and keeps everyone secret, because neither the judge nor the staff knew.
He has substance abuse, especially tobacco, alcohol and cannabis, also has compulsional cocaine consumption on weekends.
The psychiatric symptomatology that it manifests is enormously varied.
As central and structural characteristics, meeting the generic criteria of personality disorders, it presents a large number of symptoms of group B of personality disorders (antisocial, borderline, histrionic and narcissistic).
It also meets criteria for a bodily disorder (F 45.5) focused on the skin of its face.
In the SCL 90 – R de Derogatis scores positively and very high in the obsession area – with positive hostility, paranoid ideation and psychoticism.
In Hare's psychopathy scale, the score is 34, classifying it within the psychopath profile, obtaining 20 out of 22 possible points in the central psychopathy traits and 14 out of 18 in the traitors.
At the beginning of the treatment process, the father presents depressive symptoms and self-lytic behavior and the mother performs these same conducts in the presence of the psychologist responsible for the case.
Angel's mother is under treatment and her psychiatrist says she has symptoms of borderline personality disorder.
Angel's sister is at the beginning of the process with a very high level of anguish due, as she points out, to the fear she has with her brother and to the much that makes her suffer.
Ángel attends 1st year of High School in a private center that "guaranteiza" the approved, has repeated 2 courses of OHN and has gone through 6 or 7 schools, including two interned conducts due to lack of knowledge.
The tasks for approving it require that the father performs them, regardless of whether they are timely or not, to score them sufficiently, as well as to score them and insult them.
Simultaneously, it takes up work in which it does not last more than a couple of days, since at all times, it considers that they are not worthy for him.
At home, he maintains a tiranial behavior, requires immediate attention, that he buys brand clothes and that this is always clean and flat, asks him to be very expensive to buy his creams at all times.
When you take him the opposite becomes aggressive, he has in fact attacked all family members on several occasions, has also broken much of the furniture and the doors of the house.
He takes whatever he wants from anyone without asking for permission and occupies the spaces of others without taking into account them.
The group of friends it has is very focused on criminal behavior and leisure related to consumption.
She has no friends at school and sexual relations are sporadic and in contexts of consumption.
He criticizes martial arts and▁dedicates many hours to go to the gym (which must be private, he does not want to go to municipal sports facilities, he says "they are for the poor."
Case history The information presented about Angel comes from information provided by the family and the same adolescent.
Ángel is a child classified as hyperactive since childhood without any firm diagnosis on the subject and even less with neurological confirmation.
What parents tell is a child with a lot of behavior problems at school.
The mother points out that for a long time she supports the idea that the teachers are the ones who have mania to her child and that, despite being very young in psychological treatment, no one has been able to adequately care for her.
The truth is that with the data that they refer had symptoms of a challenging negativist disorder.
Moreover, it should be added that dyslexia is detected when attending the 3rd grade of elementary school, with all that supposes misconducted learning.
Her mother has always had an overprotective relationship with Angel, who has considered the best she has done in her life, mainly because she is "very pretty", they have always been very close until drug use began.
On the other hand, throughout the child's childhood and due to learning difficulties due to dyslexia, the mother loses patience at the time of study and attacks him on numerous occasions.
Regarding the father, Ángel despises him for not being able to face him, demands that he "behavior as a man".
In the mother's family there are psychopathological antecedents with a schizophrenic grandmother and a father with characteristics of borderline personality disorder.
Different cases of depressive disorders are reported in the paternal family.
The relationships between parents are very deteriorated, the mother considers the father a pessimile and threatens continuously to leave the house.
On the other hand, the mother accompanies her husband everywhere and does not allow her to have individual interviews with the therapist of the case, besides being very angry with the psychologist who attends her husband.
Ángel began the use of drugs at the age of 13, occasionally consuming tobacco and alcohol.
At 14 years old, cannabis adds to this consumption, smoking every day around 7 dog per day, maintaining its consumption until 18 years old.
It is also at the age of 14 when it starts occasionally (less than once a month) in the consumption of an amphibians, synthetic drugs and cocaine alone.
From 15 years old on, he consumes synthetic drugs and cocaine during leisure time on weekends, and also increases alcohol consumption.
At the age of 16, she has her first ethyl coma and spends a month consuming cocaine almost daily.
At the beginning of the intervention (18 years), Ángel consumes a pack of tobacco per day, 2 or 3 beer per day and cocaine 7 or 8 cups each night of the weekend consumes half a pill or a week.
The same adolescent points out that it is from the beginning of consumption when he begins to manifest criminal behavior and at no time manifests remorse.
He understands he has the right to have what others have and if he doesn't have money he takes it.
Intervention When the family comes to the support program, they ask for help to prevent their child from going to prison and, on the other hand, abandon drug use.
There is no perception of more associated problems, even the mother keeps maintaining the attitude about protective behaviors of her child.
The adolescent, as we have pointed out above, arrives without perception of problem and with the intention of demanding that we enter prison without making any effort.
This attitude and some family confrontations in the face of the therapist become aware that the problem is much more serious than they were conscious.
Data obtained in the SCL 90 – R indicates the need for psychiatric care.
Olanzapine 5 mg is prescribed for you and point out that it is a possible borderline personality disorder and rule out ADHD.
Hospitalization is suggested at different times of treatment, but Ángel denies herself.
The first task consisted of linking parents to set standards, limits and sanctions for their child.
They are also trained for threats and aggression attempts.
In the first applications of norms, it was necessary to resort to mental health services and police for the bursts of adolescent violence.
This happens several times throughout the intervention and whenever the emergency services arrive, the adolescent adapts to the situation and changes attitude avoiding hospitalizations.
The therapeutic work was carried out in a group of peers, but in the face of the successive non-compliance with the rules, the dismissal in the same principle and the misconducts it.
On the other hand, Ángel does not accept the authority of female therapists and only the acceptance of a man who is capable of not returning to his threats.
At a given moment she physically threatened a psychologist and had to be temporarily expounded.
Surprisingly, since this threat occurred in the face of the parents, the mother refuses to accept the contraceptive measure.
When the penalty is over, they return to the center.
The increase in family pressure supported by the center achieves a reduction in conducts and returns to a normalized relationship.
Start respecting the father when he is able to face him, even throw him home.
After three months, cannabis use can be eliminated but it recurs two months later, although in a smaller quantity.
Alcohol consumption is sporadic and cocaine consumption disappears.
Establishment of standards is achieved by enabling the classes to be attended to and keeping watchful for months.
He maintains this attitude for a while until he is informed that being his first crime and not having a history, he is unlikely to enter prison.
Normative behavior restarts and parents maintain the structure.
Ángel leaves home and asks for voluntary discharge.
In this process, parents continue to go to the center and make progress in terms of not giving birth to emotional chantage and the request to return home without any regulation.
The family relationship improves, including Angel who is out of the home and who begins to admire his father for being able to face him.
All this is broken when the father and mother decide to leave him home again, since other family members shelter Angel and start questioning them.
There are again differences between parents and children undergoing treatment with the intention of separating themselves, even recognizing that the last 6 months have been the best that they have had in years when they are able to set standards and limits to
