We describe the case of a 66-year-old woman with arterial hypertension, dyslipidemia and trigeminal neuralgia who came to the emergency room due to loss of vision of the left eye, not painful, of sudden onset and several days.
Inferferent examination showed a relative defect to the left fundus, a hyperemic papilla, more evident in the nasal area, with amputation of the upper vessels and peripapillary edema; isochorical pupils
Visual acuity (VA) in right eye 1 and left eye less 20/400.
The right eye showed no alterations.
C-reactive protein (CRP) and activated Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) were slightly elevated and the cranial CT scan was normal.
She was admitted for systemic study with the diagnosis of suspected optic neuritis of the left eye probably non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuritis.
The patient had erythematous lesions of residual appearance in the abdomen of infectious or toxic origin.
The patient also complained of asthenia, jaw claudication and generalized muscle pain and had not presented fever.
In the interview a venereal disease was discovered in the spouse two years ago (genital ulcerated lesion that resolved with treatment).
Neurological involvement manifested as isochoric pupils and left PARD.
The color vision was preserved.
He did not present ocular pain with movements of the globe or fixation.
Visual evoked potentials showed amplitude and latency to the left eye, compatible with left optic neuropathy.
MRI was normal.
Doppler ultrasound of the supraaortic trunks showed minimal bilateral atherosclerotic changes with small plaques in the carotid bulb without signs of significant stenosis.
Differential diagnosis The patient's clinical and physical examination showed a left anterior optic neuropathy of possible non-arteritic ischemic origin that had to be confirmed with more complementary tests.
The involvement of the optic nerve with the appearance of the generalized exanthema made us think about a toxic-infectious alteration, specifically secondary syphilis given the history of his partner of possible chancro two years ago.
Another entity within the differential diagnosis was giant cell arteritis, since it presented frequent headaches and mandibular claudication.
The antiphospholipid syndrome should also be kept in mind because of the possibility of involvement of the optic nerve due to a thromboembolic phenomenon.
Ev in relation to laboratory tests, there were positive results in serology for lues (Tenpongmundemic Diseases/16um IgG + IgM (QL) positive, FTA- antilipI antibodies positive (PRL).
Resto, including complete blood count, biochemistry, ESR, autoimmunity study, vitamin B12 levels, thyroid function, angiotensin converting enzyme levels, serology (Brucella within HBV, HCV, HIV)
Neurolúes were ruled out by lumbar puncture and CSF analysis with total negative FTA-A.
Based on the above, it was concluded that the patient had papillitis, compatible with secondary syphilis.
For this reason, 4,000,000 IU of intravenous sodium penicillin G every 4 hours for 14 days with partial resolution of the visual picture and complete disappearance of the▁dermatological picture developed later papillary and macular secondary resolution and micropsy.
The residual VA in the left eye was 20/60.
The RPR decreased, total FTA-A Ig A and anticardiolipin antibodies became negative.
Final diagnosis Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuritis caused by secondary syphilis.
