Personal history: A 54-year-old woman with a history of obesity and hypertension on treatment with 20 mg/day of Enalapril.
No known drug allergies.
Family history: Non-consanguinity of parents.
Patient with Diabetes Mellitus (DM) type 2 and died of lung cancer.
Failed master at 94 years without pathologies of interest.
Hermana lives healthy and brother with type 2 DM.
Current disease: Go to the emergency room of the HUVN with fever associated with abdominal pain.
Location in Emergency Room: Poor general condition, conscious, oriented and collaborating.
TA:105/67, Ta38o.
Obesity of troncular predominance; Generalized hirsutism.
Cardio-respiratory auscultation: Eupneic, without pathological noises with oxygen saturation: 96%, heart rate: 102 bpm.
Abdomen: painful consolidation in right hypochondrium.
Lower limbs showed no edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
General analysis: Glu: 118 mg/dl, HbA1c: 5.8%; Cr: 0.75 mg/dl; Na+: 139 patients with meq/L K+: 4.5 meq/l, GPT: 68 U/L
Leukocytes: 18400 thousand (86% N) Coles: 205 mg/dl; TG: 297 mg/dl.
Abdominal CT scan in the Emergency Department: There are 3 confluent irregular contour liver lesions showing a wall that is intensely enhanced after intravenous contrast administration.
The largest of them is in segment 6-7 and has a size of approximately 6.5 x 6 x 4.5 cm.
The other two lesions are located in segments 4 and 6 and have a diameter of approximately 2.5 cm.
Clinical judgement at admission: Liver abscess (by culture of▁exudate and blood cultures cannot be performed microbiological diagnosis).
Treatment: She was admitted to the Infectious Diseases Department.
He was treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics, complaining of the hepatic abscess resolution with drainage of it by Pigtail catheter.
The clinical evolution of the patient was positive with cessation of fever and abdominal pain.
After 2 weeks, a control abdominal CAT scan was performed, which showed good evolution in the resolution of the hepatic abscess and the absence of uterus and adnexa.
Due to these last unexpected findings, the endocrinology service was consulted.
The patient confirmed that she had primary amenorrhea for which she had never consulted and severe hirsutism since puberty.
Endocrine disorders: Obesity of troncular predominance, weight: 103.3 kg; T: 160; BMI: 40.35 kg/m2.
WC: 112 cm.
No goiter.
Mild facial disorientation but severe in the▁thorax.
alba line and androgenic distribution of pubic hair.
No voice of serious tone.
No androgenic alopecia.
Breast hypoplasia.
External genitals explored in hospital bed: Apparently female with no inguinal masses.
Gynecologic features: Vulva with moderate hypertrophy of the major lips and bilateral palpable nodules, minimal increase in the clitoris and cecum vaginalis of approximately 1 cm in diameter.
Hormonal study: LH: 12.3 mIU/ml; FSH: 29 mIU/ml, Testosterone (T): 364 ng/dl (N<752; 0.410) TDH:
PSA: &#8804;01 ng/ml, normal limit.
Karyotype: 46,XY Pelvic ultrasound: No testicles or prostate were identified.
External genital ultrasound: The right upper lip showed a homogeneous right testicle with no evidence of solid nodular lesions.
Vascular plexus dilatation with a basal diameter of 2.5 mm.
In the left labia majora, the left testicle was identified with heterogeneous echostructure in which a solid intraparenchymatous lesion was evident with foci of coarse calcification, irregular contours of approximately 18 x 13 mm.
Do not hydrocele.
Left inguinal lymphadenopathy was isolated.
Germ cell testicular tumor markers: B-HCG: <0.5 mIU/ml, Alpha-Fetoprotein: 1.7 ng/ml (N<9), LDH: 205 U/L (N<4)
Genetic study: Blood culture in Edta chromosome to isolate leukocytes and complete amplification by PCR of exons of the SRD5A2 gene (coding the enzyme 5-alpha reductase-223.1.) was performed.
The patient had compound heterozygosis 2 different pathogenic variants: c.344G>a (p. GLY115A) and c.679C>t (p.344G>a (p.
Clinical judgment: 46,XY DSD/DSD due to 5-alpha-reductase 2 deficiency with testicular tumor.
Treatment: Left orchidectomy was performed and the right testicle was preserved.
The patient wants reassignment to male gender with reconstructive surgery for which it is derived to the Reference Unit of the Andaluz Health Service.
