Consultation address Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Anamnesis: 15-year-old male with the following background: No family history of interest.
No known drug allergies.
Non-cardiovascular risk factors: Non-HTN, non-DM, no DLP.
Not other diseases of interest.
No surgical interventions.
Do not perform active treatment.
The patient comes accompanied by his mother to the emergency service of the Juan Ramón Hospital (Huelva) derived from health care referred to having colored urines and evolution of 3-4 days in their center.
He also complained of left hypochondrium pain in the previous days, not present at the time of consultation.
The patient had been suffering from two weeks of evolution associated with fever which had not been thermostimulated in previous days.
No voiding symptoms.
No diarrhea or constipation.
He doesn't welcome.
Choose an isolated vomiting the night before.
No fever.
Not consuming risk foods
She denied consumption of toxics and medications.
Physical location: good general condition, conscious, oriented and collaborating.
Physical examination revealed no abnormalities.
Epidermitis and cutaneous-mucosal irritation.
Eupneic at rest.
TA: 135/73 SO2: 99% Ta: 38.2oC HR: 102 bpm - ACP: Rhythmic tones at good frequency, without murmurs, rocks or extracts.
MVC showed no pathological noises.
- Abdomen blushing, depressible, slightly painful upon palpation of the left hypochondrium without signs of abdominal or peritoneal irritation.
Murphy and Blumberg sign were negative.
Location: negative bilateral percussion.
No hernias, masses, or enlargements were found.
Hydroaerial noises present
- neurology: PINLA.
MOEC.
Cranial preserved pairs.
Force and sensitivity were preserved.
No gait disturbance.
No meningeal signs.
No signs of neurological focality were observed.
▁Complementary tests - X-ray of the abdomen: visible psoas lines.
Sweets and gas in a colic frame.
Rectal ampoule gas.
No radiological image suggestive of air-fluid levels.
- Analytical: Leukocytosis 17430 with 73.1% lymphocytosis and 11.9% monocytosis; 3.26 total bilirubin + AST (direct bb 2.52, 717; indirect bilirrubin 0.74); LDH
Family and community approach Male, 15 years old, with no personal or family history of interest.
She lives with her parents in a village located in Huel.
Your mother works in a company as a cleaner and her father is a labourer.
She has no brothers.
Good family support.
Middle-low socio-cultural level.
Due to the absence of clinical situations of interest to date, she does not perform active medical follow-up.
Plan of action and evolution Given the clinical and analytical data previously discussed, it was decided to extend the analytical requesting FA, CRP, HCV, HBV, HIV, GGT and abdominal ultrasound is requested.
Of the amplified parameters, the only thing to highlight is a GGT of 250.
Serology of the requested viruses was negative.
Abdominal ultrasound showed a mild and homogeneous anomaly (135mm) as the only significant finding.
In this context, and analyzing the data obtained in the requested tests, it is important to make a differential diagnosis between several pathological entities.
Firstly, fever, right upper quadrant pain, jaundice, leukocytosis and hyperbilirubinemia (high bilirubin levels), could lead to suspicion of biliary disease, such as:
However, in the context of such a condition, ultrasound would most likely have found an image compatible with gallstones and positive sonographic Murphy.
On the other hand, the same analytical findings previously mentioned, in addition to choluria and increased GGT, could guide us to a picture of colitis/colangitis.
However, in this context, the logical would also be found analytical data such as elevated AF (the enzyme having stasis) and ultrasound images of dilatation of the extrahepatic bile duct or▁calculus image at the level of the bile duct.
Finally, taking into account the physical examination with pain in right and hypochondrium, fever of pharyngitis is well defined by leukocytosis with▁lymphomonocytosis in analysis requested, together with the probable biliary hyperbilirubinemia (ty
Thus, in view of the clinical and analytical findings and the imaging tests requested, it was finally decided to extend the heterophilic antibodies in the analytical, which prove to be positive.
Clinical judgement (problem analysis, differential diagnosis) Infectious Mononucleosis (Epstein&#146;s anomaly) due to differential diagnosis.
Plan of action and evolution in the emergency department During his stay in the emergency department, the patient was asymptomatic, accompanied by his mother at all times and without presenting adverse events of interest.
She was discharged with home treatment of paracetamol 650mg every 8 hours if fever and relative rest for at least one month, with clinical and analytical control by her primary care physician to objectify subsequent analytical normalization and rehydration.
