Personal history A 47-year-old male, moderate drinker with no relevant medical history except for frequent (1-2 a year) trips to the Dominican Republic for twenty years.
Current illness During the last trip to the Dominican Republic, she experienced an episode of diarrhoea without pathological products that was empirically treated with metronidazole, with good response.
On return, he consulted for diarrhea lasting one month (10-15 stools/day), steatorrhea, without pathological products and accompanied by weight loss of a 14 kg body weight.
Physical examination revealed no evidence of seizures.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation revealed no pathological findings.
Abdominal examination revealed no abnormalities, organomegaly or mass, and lymphadenopathy was absent.
▁Complementary laboratory tests, including ESR, CRP, LDH, iron metabolism, vitamin B12 and folic acid were normal.
The quantification of fat in 24-hour feces was pathological, with the result being 33 g (normal value <6 g).
The microbiological study of stools (coprocultive, fungal, Clostridium difficile toxin, and Giardia cholera antigen) was negative.
Serology to Entamoeba histolytica was positive to a titer of 1/32 by IFI (IgG).
HIV serology was negative.
Antigliadin and antiendomysium antibody determinations were negative.
In the barium intestinal transit, a slight loop dilution was observed, as well as multiple substitution defects and segmentation of the contrast medium suggestive of a malabstructive dilatation.
Diagnostic test Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed partial duodenal biopsy villous, cryptic hyperplasia, intraepithelial lymphocytes (CD3+ and CD8+ immunotypes) and microbes.
Clinical judgement Tropical prúe.
The patient was suspected of having a G infection. The patient was empirically treated with metronidazole without clinical improvement.
After diagnosis, treatment with tetrachloride 250 mg/6 hours and folic acid 10 mg/day was started, with disappearance of symptoms within 48 hours and onset of gain later.
After one year of follow-up there were no recurrences.
