A 64-year-old woman presented to the emergency department of a tertiary hospital complaining of erythematous lesions in both hands and inflammation, pain and functional impotence of the right wrist joint.
He had a biological prosthesis of the aortic valve fifteen months before the current consultation.
Examination of the patient revealed fever (38oC) and Osler nodules were observed in hands and feet, as well as nail bleeding.
Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis (12.8 x 106/L).
Blood cultures were taken and a chest ultrasound showed a large vegetation on the prosthetic valve ring.
She was diagnosed with prosthetic valve endocarditis and started treatment with vancomycin, gentamicin and rifampicin at appropriate doses.
After two days of evolution, the patient showed decreased level of consciousness and right hemiparesis.
A cranial CAT scan was normal, and a lumbar puncture was performed.
The CSF biochemistry showed no alterations and a sample was sent to the Microbiology Service.
It was decided to surgically intervene to perform a new valve replacement, but the patient died eight hours later due to cardiorespiratory arrest, before being able to be operated.
Necropsy was not performed.
Blood cultures and cerebrospinal fluid were negative after seven days of noncompliance.
Blood culture passed and white colonies of cream color and appearance were observed in all culture media.
Microscopic examination revealed yeasts, short rows and arthroconidia.
The microorganism grew in the subculture after 72 hours of usual isolation in culture media.
The vast majority of yeasts that cause infections in humans may have these characteristics.
However, species of yeast are usually grown within 24 h in media, so it can be thought that the yeast belongs to a species of slow growth (Cryptococcusdohum, Candida, Geoomyces Rhtrico).
The macroscopic appearance of the colonies ( cream and medullo-colored appearance) helps to rule out pigmented yeasts such as Rhodotorula and Sporobolomyces, which are red and ana seal respectively.
However, the most significant data refer to the microscopic morphology (conductor-shaped organisms, hyphae and arthrocones).
The presence of hyphae helps to rule out a genus such as Cryptococcus that does not usually produce filamentosa.
The presence of arthroconiosis helps to make a presumptive identification.
Arthroconiosis constitute a type of asexual reproduction, consisting of generation of tapering through a simple fragmentation of hyphae, by the area where the septa are.
It is typical of several species belonging to the genera Triporon, Gaomyces and Geotrichum.
Within the group of arthrocones cohesion, three species cause the majority of infections in humans: Gaomyces geogelhumetrichum (Geotrichum candidum), Dipodascus capitatus (Geotrichume
The latter can be considered as a typhoid assemblages and in the last taxonomic classifications it has been divided into multiple species, of which at least 6 are pathogenic to humans (T. asahum, T.
Of all, the most important from the pathogenic point of view is T. asahii, since it is the one that produces almost all cases of deep infections caused by these Tripods.
A morphological study, biochemical tests, and complementary techniques are needed to distinguish among the three arthroconiosis species.
Macroscopic morphology does not help differentiate among the three species, since the colonies of all of them are white or creamy, and have a mild appearance.
Microscopic morphology is more specific, although not definitive, since sometimes only hyphae and arthrocones are observed.
The microscopic morphology of D.tus is characterized by presenting narrow sharp angle  hyphae branching with illustrative and endosporas.
G. geotrichum usually presents thicker hyphae branching at a right angle.
T. beigelii has a variable morphology since it is a rare entity.
In general terms, it usually presents with spindle and disarticulate hyphae, abundant giant branched arthrocones with irregular fusiform shapes, and sometimes apreoria (close rowing structures, a
Both biochemical tests and complementary techniques are used as confirmatory methods of identification.
Triporon species are easily distinguished from Gaomyces and Dipodascus, since they▁assimilate a large number of carbohydrates and produce urea hydrolysis.
G. geotrichum and D. capitatus▁assimilate a lower number of carbohydrates (glucose, saccharose and some other depending on the strain) and do not hydrolyze urea.
These two species can be distinguished because Gaomyces does not grow well at 37oC and because many strains▁assimilate xylose.
None of the three carbohydrate species.
