An 85-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with dyspnea, fever maintained at 39oC and purulent expectoration of two days of evolution.
His history included hypertension, rheumatic polymyalgia, hip arthrosis and bilateral phakectomy.
Physical examination revealed multiple ecchymosis in the trunk and lower limbs, tachypnea at rest and basal oxygen saturation 89-90%.
On pulmonary auscultation, there were hoarseness and generalized wheezing in both hemithorax.
Analytically, there was an increase in acute phase reactants (CRP, procalcitonin and leukocytes), impaired renal function (Creatinin 1.55mg/dL), prolonged aPTT (74s).
Chest X-ray showed no evidence of interest.
In addition, considering the time of the year, respiratory virus tests were performed, which were positive for influenza A.
Hospitalization was decided in the Internal Medicine service and oseltamivir was started adjusted to its renal function.
Twelve hours after admission, the patient presented with▁frank hematuria with asymmetrical repercussion requiring transfusion support.
APTT worsening (94 s) was observed after control analysis.
Platelet count, PT and prothrombin activity were within normal limits.
Presence of inhibitor and presence is confirmed by study of mixtures.
Initial aPTT 74 s, initial Mezcla 32 s and Mezcla after 1 hour of voiding 42 s. Additional studies confirm the presence of an inhibitor of FVIII, an activity of this factor of less than 5% 29.
Acquired diagnosis was confirmed.
Treatment was initiated with recombinant Factor VII and Methylprednisolone (0.5mg/kg IV every 24 hours), dose adjusted for active infectious process.
Extension studies ruled out active neoplasia with TAC-abomino-pelvic and negative tumor markers.
The autoimmunity profile was also negative.
Microbiological studies and serology for hepatotropic virus and human immunodeficiency negative.
During the evolution, the patient developed urinary tract infection due to E. coli, without antibiotic resistance.
Once the viral process has been controlled and the oseltamivir scheme has been completed, cyclophosphamide is administered for acquired treatment.
After that, the patient recovered Factor VIII levels 59% and normalized aPTT with disappearance of the Inhibir (imagen 1).
The patient was discharged with resolved initial symptoms and no evidence of new hemorrhagic complications.
He continued weekly outpatient controls and completed 6 weeks of treatment.
