A 65-year-old male smoker with a history of hypercholesterolemia, upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to pyloric ulcer, hyperuricemia, anticoagulated atrial fibrillation underwent mitral valve replacement three months ago.
She came to our hospital emergency department with a history of fever up to 39oC accompanied by chills (especially nocturnal),▁malaise, confusion and vomiting without pathological products.
In previous days she did not report any associated respiratory, voiding or gastrointestinal symptoms.
Physical examination revealed that the patient was in a regular general state, conscious, disoriented in time and in person, not in space.
Blood pressure was 135/70 mmHg and heart rate was 87 bpm.
Afebril.
Cardiac auscultation revealed slightly tachycardic arrhythmic tone with metallic clicks.
Upon pulmonary auscultation, vesicular murmur was preserved without overlapping sounds.
Attention is paid during the neurological examination to the neck stiffness as well as to positive meningeal signs (King and Bruzinsky), with strength and sensitivity preserved in the upper and lower limbs.
With the clinical suspicion of meningitis, a complete general laboratory test was performed with hemoglobin of 10.3 mg/dl, 6340 x103 leukocytes (4920 x 103 neutrophils), 102,000 x103 platelets, dl
Differential diagnosis We are faced with a case of acute meningitis acquired in the community, with the main "guide data" available, neutrophilic pleocytosis, hypoglycorchia and hyperproteinorrhosis.
The diagnosis of community-acquired acute meningitis (1) is a challenge in the elderly due to its variable clinical presentation and associated comorbidity.
The main causes of acute meningitis acquired in the community are: 1.
Infections • Bacterial infection (acquired pneumonia) due to hypoglycorrhachia, hyperproteinorrhachia and neutrophilic neutrophilic leukaemia mainly Streptococcus,,, Li meningitidis or meningitis)
Early stages of meningitis due to Brucella spp., Lues or Leptospiras spp.
• Viral, mainly related to enterovirus, arbovirus, parotiditis, herpes simplex virus, varicella-zoster virus, Epstein-acquired infection, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus and HIV.
• Mycobacteria.
• Fungi, honey.
2.
Central nervous system lymphoma or meningeal carcinomatosis
3.
Others: Parameningeal foci (cerebralempyema), cerebral aneurysm, chemical meningitis, early stages of Mollaret meningitis, acute haemorrhagic encephalitis, multiple infectious endocarditis.
4.
Unknown Ca
In the imaging technique performed (craneal CT), there were no evidences of bleeding, nor focal lesions at the parenchyma or meninges level, which made a brain inflammatory lesion, a meningeal lymphoma, or a meningeal carcinomatosis.
On the other hand, CSF biochemical analysis was compatible with bacterial meningitis: turbid fluid with neutrophilic pleocytosis (1810 leukocytes/mm3 with 95% neutrophils), hyperproteinorrhea (dl-glycoprotein higher than 500 mg).
Therefore, the main etiology to be ruled out was infectious bacterial characteristics.
a 4 Episode treatment for bacterial meningitis in patients older than 50 years, with 10mg every 24h, ceftriaxone 2g every 12h, vancomycin 1g, IV dexamethasone 2g every 12h is initiated.
Prior to the beginning of antibiotic treatment, a sample was taken for culture and detection of Streptococcus pneumoniae antigen in CSF, which were negative (both culture and antigerne), Gram-positive subplot streptococcus equicumum was performed.
Species identification was performed directly from the hemocultive using mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF).
After obtaining a positive blood count (2 from IV), antibiotic therapy was changed more completely to betamethasone for 7 days (42 million units/day) intravenously for 14 days and then ceftriax was modified for 24 days.
Blood cultures were negative after 7 days of antibiotic treatment.
Bacteremia and recent prosthetic heart valve replacement were ruled out with transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography.
There was no hypogammaglobulinemia or evidence of immunosuppression.
Streptococcus equi is clearly related to contact with animals.
In this sense, the patient who reported having gone two days before the onset of symptoms to a pilgrimage for a local party, in which he had direct contact with a large number of horses, was reinterrupted.
The evolution was favorable with disappearance of fever and other symptoms, as well as normalization of acute phase reactants.
Final diagnosis Bacterial meningitis community bacteremic Streptococcus equi subsp.
ruminatorum.
