A 46-year-old woman with a tobacco consumption index of 46 pack-years, alcohol consumption of 160 g of alcohol daily, periodontal disease with dental extraction the month prior to admission, without other personal history of interest.
She was married to a stable partner, mother of four children and housewife.
She came to the emergency room due to general▁malaise, dysthermic sensation not thermostimulated with associated tiritone, coughing in the form of dense accesses with herrumbrous expectoration in the right hemithorax and pain in the right side.
The patient denied having experienced vomiting or loss of consciousness in the context of alcohol overdose.
On the previous days, he had visited his health center twice due to a similar clinical condition, treated with mepifilin and later on, due to episodes of wheezing for 6 days, which were partially effective in controlling the symptoms.
On physical examination, the patient had a blood pressure of 106/70 mmHg, heart rate of 100 beats per minute, O2 by pulse oximetry of 89%, FiO2 of 21% and body temperature saturation of blood pressure C.
The inspection showed a regular general condition, conscious and alert, oriented by the three tachypneic signs when speaking.
Leptosomics, terrous skin color and very poor personal hygiene with smelling septic mouth.
On respiratory auscultation, hypophonesis in the upper and middle right fields with isolated inspiratory crackles.
Heart attack anodyne.
Abdominally, only non-painful hepatomegaly stands out due to the presence of an exometer of the left hepatic lobe at 1 cent of the costal margin.
Lower extremities without edema or signs suggestive of deep vein thrombosis.
▁Complementary tests performed in the emergency department showed leukocytosis of 16160 cells/μl with neutrophilia, hemoglobin of 11.8 g/dl mean corpuscular volume Cina Reactive level with preserved renal function/mm3, protein concentration of 544000 and protein of 102 ng/mm.
Gram stain, sputum smear microscopy and determination of influenza A and B virus antigen were negative.
Blood cultures and sputum cultures were obtained.
The chest X-ray showed cavitation in the upper lobe of the right lung with air-fluid level suggestive of lung abscess, as well as infiltration with air bronchogram in the middle lobe (right upper lobe hydrocavitary cavitation).
Given the clinical status of the patient and the result of the complementary tests, it was decided to hospitalize the Infectious Diseases Unit of our hospital, with the diagnosis of presumptive right lung abscess.
Differential diagnosis Usually, the initial diagnosis of lung abscess is made by means of a chest X-ray in which a pulmonary cavity with a hydroaerial level as shown in our patient is seen.
In any cavitated lesion, a differential diagnosis should be made where the following entities would enter mainly: • Bacterial infections: Normally anaerobic bacteria coming from the mouth.
• Septic pulmonary embolism: Septic embolisms can reach the lung from several sources, including: • Heart valve infection, generally causing multiple right lung abscesses, bilateral and peripheral endocarditis, especially in cases of right lung abscess.
Usually they are smaller than our patient, which together with the clinical and presentation, make this diagnosis unlikely.
• Peripheral septic thrombophlebitis.
A classic mechanism for the development of lung abscesses, although in the current uncommon era, is called Lemierre's syndrome, which occurs after an oropharyngeal infection and manifests as a septic internal necrophorbitis vein.
In our patient, in the presence of a septic mouth and a previous history of dental extraction one month before admission, it was mandatory to rule out this entity by means of a neck Doppler ultrasound, which was normal.
• Pulmonary abscess secondary to catheter-related infection, which was ruled out in our case due to the lack of use of this material prior to the patient's condition.
• Pulmonary tuberculosis, which, although rarely, may present as an abscess, and should always be considered in the diagnosis, due to its epidemiological, therapeutic and prognostic implications.
In case of suspicion, patients should be isolated microbiologically confirmed, as was the case in our patient, obtaining 2 negative sputum without acid-fast bacilli until resistant bacilli.
• Lung cancer: Tumor lung masses may develop cavitation even without secondary infection, although the most common is infection following a respiratory tract or a large tumor mass.
In these cases, both clinical risk factors and computed tomography (CT) are essential for diagnosis.
• Pulmonary nodules in patients with Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener's granulomatosis) and rheumatoid arthritis can form cavities and be confused with abscesses, but these usually manifest as systemic differential diagnosis.
Characteristically, bullae and blisters have thin walls and do not have infiltrates around.
The opportunistic pathogens were excluded due to the following causes: cough; subsequently, hydatid cysts; and other less probable causes were ruled out in our patient initially due to the characteristics of the case; the absence of immunosuppression;
lobule in right lobe of▁thorax after computed tomography with contrast in which a lung cavity with air-fluid level in right upper lobe antibiotic was observed at apical and posterior level of 10x7x7.5 cm compatible with abscess,
Empirical intravenous treatment was started with imipenem and linezolid, de-escalating after 72h of intravenous amoxicillin-clavulanic administration 875/125 mg every 8 hours.
The evolution was satisfactory both clinically and analytically, reducing the amount and fetid sputum as well as cough and fever.
The results of emergency cultures were negative and 2 more smears (3 in total), were negative, as were the serological tests for HIV.
After completing 10 days of hospital treatment, it was decided to discharge the patient and continue with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875/125 mmHg every 8 hours at home, with follow-up in the outpatient clinic of the Infectious Diseases Unit.
The patient completed treatment after 6 weeks of antibiotic therapy. The last follow-up was asymptomatic and showed radiological improvement (CT of chest c/c: cavitated lesion in LSD).
Final diagnosis Primary pulmonary abscess in the right upper lobe in patient with periodontal disease and alcoholism.
