Three year old patient.
No notable perinatal history.
Normal height and psychomotor development.
Vaccinated according to schedule.
Mild▁bronchiolitis episode at 5 months
Good evolution with outpatient treatment.
At 18 months of life, recurrent wheezing episodes and low saturation levels began, which were treated with inhaled corticosteroids and inhaled corticosteroids in some episodes.
At two years of age she was admitted with▁spastic bronchitis with poor response to outpatient treatment: beta 2 inhaled in the chamber and oral corticosteroids.
Little brute saturation.
Afebril Nasopharyngeal smear: negative for RSV, adenovirus, influenza A virus and influenza B virus PCR:11 mg/L.
Chest X-ray was normal.
The patient received nebulized venipuncture for three days.
And finally, he's discharged.
She started preventive inhaled therapy with budesonide 400 mcg/day.
Twenty days after discharge, the patient presented with intense emetogenic cough, with roncus and bilateral crackles.
Afebril.
Poor response to inhaled therapy
Clinical and cardiopulmonary auscultation improved with oral antibiotics: amoxicillin 80mg/kg/day, 10 days.
Preventive therapy with inhaled budesonide is maintained.
Episodes of intermittent cough of variable duration (10-14 days) for 5 months, treated with inhaled therapy with very irregular evolution, were recorded in medical records.
SECOND REVENUE Five months after the first admission, the patient presented with a high fever of 5 days onset with intense cough and crackles in the lung bases, initiating antibiotic therapy with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.
After two days, the patient was reviewed to maintain fever and hypoxemia.
The patient was referred to a hospital for evaluation because he was admitted for hypoxemia.
Chest X-ray upon admission with bilateral bronchial infiltrates and right basal consolidation.
PCR: 11.5 mg/L, PCT: 0.259 ng/mL Anti Epstein barr IgM positive, Mycoplasma pneumoniae IgM dudos, Chlamydia Ig M as very negative, false positive IgG and IgM verbally positive IgM;
Adenovirus and Enterovirus positive.
Viral challenge negative.
CRP: 11.5 mg/L, PCT: 0.259 ng/ml.
Antibiotic therapy is withdrawn during admission.
The fever rebounds within 48 hours and responds well to inhaled beta-2-agonist and steroid therapy.
She was discharged with a diagnosis of viral pneumonia.
Twenty days after discharge, persistent cough persists.
The patient was then given a new course of oral amoxicillin (10 days), with resolution of cough and no alterations in pulmonary auscultation.
Mantoux is performed as a ambulance and first level screening for recurrent infections: hemogram, biochemistry, levels of Igs, complement, with no remarkable alterations.
Due to the history of pneumonia and evolution after discharge with cough and altered pulmonary auscultation, the chest X-ray was repeated one and a half month after hospital admission.
Persistent right basal condensation and rail images suggestive of bronchiectasis are observed.
The patient was referred to the pulmonology department where the HRCT study (high-level ACTC) showed left lower bronchial lobe resolution and central bronchiectasis in the middle lobe and right lower lobe attero-obstructive bronchi.
Given the result of the HRCT, they decided to perform fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy.
Bronchoalveolar lavage culture: Haemophilus influenzae (susceptible to amoxicillin-clavulanate).
Mycobacterial infections: negative.
She underwent antibiotic therapy with amoxicillin clavulanic acid for 14 days.
Aspergillus▁lymphocytic subpopulations and immunoglobulins subpopulations: normal Ig E specific for Aspergillus: negative Sweat Test : 24 mmol/L (normal)▁Vaccine response: pneumococci, tetanus
▁Complementary study: CH-50 38.1 IU/ml; C-3 mlgrs/100; C-4 28 mlgrs/100: normal A dose of anti-neumovalent vaccine was applied for 113 months followed by a 23-valent pneumococcal dose.
Currently, he performs respiratory physiotherapy as the only basic treatment.
She presented with new episodes of non-inhaled fever cough responding to beta 2 on demand and respiratory physiotherapy without presenting hypoxemia.
