Background, current disease and physical examination A 61-year-old woman, without cardiovascular risk factors or relevant medical history, came to her health center for oppressive chest pain radiating to her back, associated with a risk of progression and dyspnea.
On arrival, the patient had a poor general condition with a heart rate of around 250 bpm and hypotension.
An electrocardiogram (figure 1) was performed, after which it was decided to inform the emergency services and administer 300 mg of intravenous amiodarone.
Upon arrival of the mobile IVU, the patient remains symptomatic without achieving cardioversion.
The presence of tachyarrhythmia interpreted as ventricular tachycardia, poorly hemodynamically, was decided to perform electrical cardioversion.
After sedation, cardioversion was performed with three shocks (200-300-360 Julys) without success, after which the emergency care was delivered to the reference hospital.
▁Complementary tests: CBC analysis: hemoglobin 1 g/dl, hematocrit 36%, leukocytes 9,000/uL, platelets 183,000/uL.
Normal coagulation.
Glucemia 225 mg/dl, creatinine 1.2 mg/dl, sodium 138 mmol/litre, potassium 4.1 mmol/litre, magnesium 1.9 mg/dl, lactate 2.4 mmol/litre, calcium 8.3 mmol/litre
Syncope Seizures when inadvertent venous catheterisation is performed
In sinus rhythm, the electrocardiogram showed a generalized decrease in the segment ascent in aVR, so contacting the cardiological critical care unit of our center and referral for study.
On arrival, the patient is asymptomatic and hemodynamically stable.
When asked, the patient did not report previous episodes of chest pain episodes, even though the chest pain was diagnosed daily several kilometers.
Preexcitation was observed in the baseline electrocardiogram.
Echocardiography showed Ebstein's anomaly with lateral leaflet of the tricuspid valve with low implantation (1.4 cm of the mitral valve) not previously known.
▁Right ventricle slightly dilated with slightly depressed systolic function and moderate-severe tricuspid regurgitation.
The recording of the tachycardia with the electrophysiology service is reviewed and, when the patient was suspected to present a supraventricular tachycardia, probable pre-excited atrial fibrillation, it was decided to perform an electrophysiological study and ablation.
This study detected three accessory pathways: right posteroseptal, left posteroseptal and right inferolateral, requiring effective ablation of them.
As a complication, the patient presented mild pericardial effusion without changes during her evolution, and was discharged asymptomatic with outpatient follow-up.
Establishment of a diagnosis of Parkinson’ s disease White ̄ a
