Anamnesis An 8-month-old male came to the▁dermatology department for congenital hand lymphedema study.
The obstetric history of her mother highlighted polyhydramnios without gestational diabetes.
Parents without consanguinity.
In her personal history, she was born preterm at 36 weeks of gestation by labor induction with a weight of 4470 g and a height of 50 cm.
As a family history, a brother who was born with transposition of great vessels stood out.
From birth she presented mild and recurrent episodes of upper respiratory tract infections and external▁otitis.
In addition to 7 months of life, she began with frequent episodes of deposition with mucus and undigested substances.
Physical examination revealed segmental and asymmetrical lymphedema predominantly in both hands, cervical region, right lower limb, pubis and hydrocele.
The feet were respected.
A▁conglomerate of adenopatic right axilla was detected.
▁Complementary laboratory tests showed lymphocyte levels in the lower limit of normality, hypoproteinemia with hypoalbuminemia and hypogammaglobulinemia (IgG 254 mg/dL, IgA 13 mg/dL).
The rest of the laboratory tests including cholesterol, triglycerides, coagulation, immunoglobulin E, thyroid function, ceruloplasmin, serology of hepatitis C, hepatitis B, human immunodeficiency virus, syphilis, varicella▁deficient cytomegalovirus, E virus.
The study of lymphocyte subpopulations showed an abnormal increase in virgin T and B lymphocytes.
The study of digestion in▁faeces was altered with increased cellulose, starch and muscle fibers, although the levels of alpha-1-antitrypsin fecal were normal.
The chest X-ray was normal.
Radiography of the spine and lower limbs revealed no dysmetria.
Abdominal ultrasound and echocardiography showed mild amounts of free peritoneal and pericardial fluid, respectively.
A lymph node ultrasound detected bilateral axillary and inguinal lymphadenopathies of right predominance.
A normal MRI without skull contrast was performed.
MRI of the trunk and extremities showed arrosarian dilations of superficial lymphatic vessels in the upper limbs, right lower limb and cervical region.
The thoracic duct was dilated and there was a slight amount of ascites.
In addition, edema of the mucosa and especially the presence of ectatic vessels in the wall were highlighted.
A karyotype was normal.
The study of the FLT4 gene mutation (VEGFR-3) in Milroy's disease was negative.
A cutaneous biopsy revealed superficial vessels lymphangiectasia.
The histological study of right axillary disease showed a lymph node entirely covered by vascular channels of lymphatic nature, in some of which secondary▁lymphoban follicle aggregates were observed instead of secondary follicles.
These channels had a positive endothelium for D2 immunostaining.
This tissue alternated with areas of mature adipose tissue.
The lymph node capsule was preserved.
The dense stroma was mostly composed of spindle cells corresponding to smooth muscle tissue.
The triad of diarrhea, hypoproteinemia and hypogamma was performed an endoscopy which showed oral villous globulinemia and swimmers with patchy pattern in the duodenum, with the rest of the normal exploration.
Biopsy of the intestinal mucosa was taken with histology compatible with intestinal lymphangiectasia.
Diagnosis According to the 2014 ISSVA classification, we are faced with a generalized primary▁lymphocytic anomaly that causes intestinal lymphedema and lymphangiectasia, so we are faced with a lymphangiectasia-lymphedema syndrome.
Treatment We started treatment with oral sirolimus at a dose of 0.8 mg/m2 every 24 hours, maintaining blood drug levels between 5-7 ng/mL.
The patient developed diarrhea for two months in oral sirolimus treatment with remission of the disease and mild improvement of cutaneous lymphedema.
