47 years old, moderate smoker, diagnosed in 1999 of systemic erythematous (SLE) without posterior sprouts, vasculitis, doubtful mitral endocarditis, proliferative glomerulone mesangial lupus erythematosus, four female smoker abortion syndrome.
Echocardiogram in 2010 showed double mitral lesion with predominance of moderate regurgitation.
She was admitted to another hospital due to dyspnea. Anemia, bilateral infiltrates and dark sputum with suspected alveolar hemorrhage (AH) were observed.
Positive ANA and lupus anticoagulant, other negative immunological study; elevated ESR and Cr 1.46mg/dl.
▁Cyclophosphamide and corticoids were started with improvement in <72 hours with radiological resolution.
Echocardiography was performed with moderate mitral stenosis, atrial dilatation and severe pulmonary hypertension.
At discharge, she persists with some dyspnea.
The patient was readmitted three months later due to respiratory worsening, fever and cough with expectoration. Chest X-ray and tomography were performed, which were compatible with pulmonary edema (confirmed by tomography), and she was referred to our hospital because she needed cardiac intervention.
Treatment with prednisone, cyclophosphamide, Sintrom, lasartan, pantoprazole, calcium carbonate/calcium diferol.
On arrival: Hb 10.4g/dl; urea 189mg/dl; Cr 2.3mg/dl; CRP 249.1mg/l; PCT 1.07ng/dl; proBNP 3.307pg/ml; INR 4.77.
Sputum culture, pneumococcal antigenuria, hemocultive and urocultive were requested; empirical antibiotic therapy with cefepime and levofloxacin was initiated.
In the analytical control, the patient had normal ESR 124, normal immunoglobulin and complement biochemistry, moderate inflammatory pattern proteinogram; urinalysis with proteinuria; ANA, PR3 and MPO ANCA, ENA, IgGds and anticardioB
▁Cyclophosphamide was suspended and atovacuone was started.
New echocardiography with rheumatic mitral valve disease with moderate stenosis and mild regurgitation, mild-to-moderate pulmonary hypertension.
After >72 hours of antibiotic therapy, the patient presented two peaks, CRP levels, persistent respiratory symptoms, hypoxemia and X-rays with bilateral infiltrates. When treated, we also suspected chotriox elevation in an immunocompromised patient.
Fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy was performed with culture samples (bacterial, mycological, Actinomyces) which were negative, pathological anatomy and PCR of P. jirovecii which was positive.
Cotrimoxazole was maintained with clinical, analytical and radiological improvement.
