A 48-year-old woman with a personal history of moderate aortic stenosis due to calcified bicuspid valve, hypercholesterolemia in treatment with beta-blockers, ex smoking, dyslipidemia, migraine,
The patient was scheduled for aortic valve replacement and implantation of a St. Jude aortic prosthesis 21.
The surgical intervention was rapid, with cardiopulmonary bypass times and aortic clamping of 70 and 60 minutes, respectively, and without intraoperative complications.
In the first 24 hours after surgery, the patient developed mild biventricular hypotension and acute renal failure, which was controlled with vasoactive drugs in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
On postoperative day +7 she developed fever of up to 38 oC and tiritone without other symptoms; Daptomycin 10 mg/kg/d was empirically discontinued.
In the hemocultive was isolated in a bottle of two coagulase-negative Staphylococcus (CoNS); negative urocultive; and normal transthoracic ultrasound (TTE) 72 hours after the onset of infection, surgeons performed an infectious disease.
At the time of evaluation, the patient was afflicted with asymptomatic infection.
In the anamnesis the Raynaud's phenomenon of years of evolution, Stroke in youth, first trimester abortion and first degree family member deceased by ischemic stroke stood out.
In intense physical examination livedo reticularis of the lower limbs; and in analytical only CRP was 12"3 mg/dL.
At this time (day + 12 postoperative) 24 grams of Fosfmycin is added to the day redose and 600 mg ibuprofen every 12 hours orally.
Differential diagnosis The differential diagnosis in our patient would be a postoperative fever in the first postoperative week.
Infectious stroke • Urinary tract infection associated with a urinary catheter • Surgical wound infection • Achievement of vascular access (central or peripheral) • Non-infectious colitis, pro-inflammatory thrombosis.
• Transfusion reaction • Postpericardiectomy syndrome.
• Addiminous drugs (Solopinavir receptaccination inhibitors, Low Molecular Weight Heparin, NSAI, diuretics, hyperthyroidism, endocardial fluoroquinolone) • As addictive agents
Clinical manifestations were observed on day + 13 of antibiotic administration, in which the prosthetic valve function was good without signs of vegetation.
HC at day + 16 were negative.
On day + 20, a new fever peak of 37"8 oC and a phlebitis of a peripheral line were observed. A CNS was again isolated in hemocultives.
For this reason, TEE was repeated on postoperative day + 23 where a philamentous vibric mass dependent on the aortic wall of about 7 mm in diameter on an ascending aortic area 6 cm was observed.
Chest Angio-CT at day + 24 (+ 12 antimicrobial therapy) resulted in complications at the level of the ascending aorta and detected postsurgical changes and condensed bilateral ascending atelectasis after surgery minimum ascending stenosis.
The control blood culture of day + 25 was negative.
It was decided to maintain the antibiotic treatment until completing 6 weeks before the diagnosis of possible infectious endarteritis.
A special coagulation study was carried out to find Heterozygosis for Factor XII (position 46), Anti-Lupipal positive, IgM - IgG Beta2 glycoprotein negative.
After this, therapy with anticoagulants for INR 2"5 - 3"5 was initiated.
The patient suffered from constipation and without subsequent incidence. TEE did not find new findings.
Final diagnosis Febrile syndrome after cardiac surgery, intraaortic mass in which endarteritis due to CNS or intraarterial thrombus cannot be ruled out in the context of primary antiphospholipid syndrome waiting for confirmation 2 months.
