This is a 32-year-old patient with no significant allergic history who worked in the restoration of a school building in the parish of Santa Rosamiga de Caracas, Venezuela, with no history of previous accidents.
She immediately developed symptoms of urticaria, located in the right forearm, with intense itching and general▁malaise and hypotension/50 mmHg. The patient did not report previous episodes of hypnotic adverse reactions.
Friendships were later identified and classified as Odontomachus bauri species.
The bite was presented as an immediate cutaneous reaction characterized by an erythematous▁papule (urticarial) of 16 x 6 cm▁surrounded by a halo irritation, with a burning sensation of itching around the area or area causing itching.
Physical examination revealed intense swelling around the bite site covering the entire anterior part of the right forearm, with peripheral erythema.
The lesion developed was extremely pruritic.
Intradermal hymen venom tests (Vespula sp., Polistes sp.
and Apis mellifera) were negative.
A sodium succinate ampoule was administered by a patient with hydrocephalus or baurios (100 mg/stat) and the systemic antihistamine Loratadine (10 mg/tableta) a tablet of moderate urticaria was given.
Friendship can be defined as an important health risk in tropical and subtropical areas.
The current case, with no known history of seizures due to asbestos, had a rapid and intense evolution, beginning with a typical bite or stinging of the tonsil, but with an enormous allergic reaction to the skin.
On physical examination, no other symptoms were detected that could lead to suspicion of generalised anaphylaxis, despite hypotension, which was normalized (120/75 mmHg), after administration of the hydrochlorothiazide.
However, the patient was informed that additional contact with these fungi could cause a more severe clinical picture, such as an angioneurotic edema or anaphylactic shock; another accident was recommended to keep antihistamines.
We try to demonstrate in this clinical report that S. invicta and S. richteri are not the only ones in their capacity to cause serious allergic reactions in the continent.
A diverse group of rare diseases Rhchynorm (Formicinae, Myrmeciinae, Ponerinae, Ectatomminae, Myrmicinae, Pseudoconrme, Myrmicinae and Pseudochycon
The knowledge that these bravas, native or imported Friendly Species could cause serious reactions in patients should result in a faster evaluation, with their emergency treatment.
