A 41-year-old female patient, born in the southern area of Ecuador, daughter of a butcher parent, has resided in Spain since 1998, with no recent travel to her country of origin and no medical history.
He came to the emergency room on different occasions for 10 months due to recurrent episodes of neck pain, headache in the occipital region, fever up to 38.5oC, nausea and vomiting.
Cervical pain was intense and pulsating when the head was bent and pressed. The patient progressively noticed ra signs in the hands and less strength when objects were manipulated.
Physical examination revealed pain in the right posterior cervical spine and palpation, without signs of meningeal pain, although there was mild resistance to pain in cervical flexion, minimal weakness distal to the pressure of the hands, and hyperreflexure.
Normal eye fund.
A brain magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) was performed on an outpatient basis, showing hyperintensity of signal in the diffusion study, located in the posterior left parasagittal occipital region.
suspect of cervical myelopathy with possible migratory status, it was decided to be admitted for study.
Multiple complementary tests were performed, highlighting a serology for Borrelia burgdorferii (positive IgG).
CMR was repeated, where the hyperintensity zone persisted, including also periventricular substance and dilatation of the ventricular system.
Normal cervical spine study.
Computed tomography of the chest, abdomen and pelvis was normal.
Lumbar puncture was performed, obtaining normal CSF, clear, glucose 49mg/dL, proteins 63.2mg/dL, leukocytes (PMN, MN3.6 Gram-negative cells Zinc negative, cytological smear microalbumin cell / uL 15%
The patient worsens and a new CMR was performed showing signs of hydrocephalia and contrast uptake by the meninges.
Dc due to a new clinical suspicion of chronic meningitis with progressive hydrocephalia and signs and symptoms of intracranial hypertension, a neurosurgical intervention was decided: initially a ventricular-peritoneal shunt (PVD) was implanted and a biopsy was taken
Anatomopathological result was obtained, where no significant pathology was observed.
A new CMR was performed showing an improvement, which was confirmed with clinical improvement. The diagnosis was chronic meningitis due to possible neurosarcoidosis with secondary progressive hydrocephalia. The decision was made to start steroid treatment.
In one of the physical examinations, there was a right supraclavicular swelling and redness in the posterior cervical region that did not exist before: the CAT scan showed no abnormalities.
A new lumbar puncture was performed, obtaining CSF with mild pleocytosis.
After these findings it is concluded that there are no signs of infection but recurrence by decreased corticosteroid treatment and it is recommended to suspend antibiotic treatment and increase corticosteroids.
The diagnosis of Sarcoidosis and other possible ones is questioned, since it presents normal angiotensin converting enzyme and negative Quantiferon.
Another CMR was performed, which showed contrast uptake in the pachy and leptomeninge of the posterior aspect of the bulbomedullary transition to the end of the second cervical vertebra, with the appearance of a transverse cerebellar cyst.
Cervical pain persists associated with vomiting, so a new CMR is performed, observing a centered midline and aiming at the presence of two non-selective lesions cystic semiology in the interior of the left lateral ventricle with a similar catheter tip.
Subsequently, he begins to present behavioral changes and gait disturbance; he suffers a fall in the street with TBI, presents with hand difficulty, tremor, vomiting more frequently, urinary incontinence, and no fever.
Hydrocephalia reappeared and a reoperation was decided upon in case of DVP dysfunction.
Subsequently, she presents multiple complications with persistent headache and gait instability.
It presents with several episodes of obstruction of the DVP requiring surgical interventions.
The physical examination showed progressive deterioration of the general state level, without neurological focus, broad base of support, edematization face and neck, facies decreasing the presence of tremors in both hands corticosteroid.
The possibility of reactivation of chronic meningitis after discontinuation of corticosteroid treatment is postulated.
Finally, given the clinical and the findings it was decided to perform a new brain biopsy due to suspicion of reabsorptive hydrocephalia secondary to probable chronic-neurosarcoidosis meningitis.
During the surgical intervention, multiple cysts were observed in the subarachnoid and infracerebellar areas.
The pathological anatomy was reported as a piece of cystectomy in the cisterna magna: festoneated cyst and fibrous wall of origin, although it cannot be confirmed by the absence of cysticercosis.
Multiple microbiological studies with biopsy were performed, but tuberculosis was negative.
Finally, the PCR of Taenia solium in brain biopsy is positive, so it was decided to start treatment with praziquantel and albendazole, when the diagnosis of neurocysticercosis was confirmed.
Unfortunately, the patient continues to have a poor outcome and even episodes of obstruction of the DVP, which have led to multiple complications in relation to prolonged hospitalization.
This case highlights the importance of this type of pathology and the relevance of highlighting the epidemiological history of patients, which often forgets us and makes us direct the diagnostic process based on diseases we see in our area much more frequently.
