The patient was hospitalized for 1 month and 25 days after admission due to cough and mucus for 5 days.
Persistent respiratory distress, mother comes to the emergency department.
A diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis was established by endoscopic▁retrograde cholangiopancreatography.
Chest X-ray and pulmonary CT and positive Mantoux.
She started anti-tuberculous treatment 10 days ago.
Mantoux to family contacts pending reading
I'm not interested.
PHYSICAL EXPLORT REVENUE Weight: 4020 g (p3), Length 53 cm(10), WC 38 cm (p50), Ta:120p·m, 98.FC S45.
Good general condition, cutaneous and mild mucous.
Adequate hydration and nutrition.
Tachypnea and mild subcostal pulling.
PA: acceptable bilateral ventilation with disseminated wheezing and wheezing. CA: rhythmic, systolic murmur 2/6 mesocardium.
Abdomen: blando e depresible, settle pole of the spleen at 1.5 cm below costal margin and liver at 1 cm below costal margin, not painful.
ENT: abundant clear rhinorrhea.
Otoscopy was normal.
Neurological: anterior sinusitis with normal blood pressure of 2x2 cm.
Good spontaneous activity and reactivity to stimuli.
Normal tone and strength.
Keep looking and sketching smile during the exploration.
Non-cutaneous lesions COMPLEMENTARY EXAMINATION CBC: Hb 8.7, hematocrit 27%, Leukocytes 21400 (38%N, 40%L), platelets 419000.
Blood chemistry: Glucose 100 mg/dl, urea and creatinine normal.
PCR 9 mg/dl·Rx▁thorax A-P: bilateral interstitial infiltrate.
COMPLEMENTARY EXAMINATIONS (EN PLANTA)▁Haemogram : Leukocytes 18,500/mm3 (N 45%,L 41%, M 10%), Hb: 8.4 g/dl, sickle cell disease:
White and platelet series showed no abnormalities.
Biochemistry: Renal, hepatic and lipid abnormalities except GGT 466 IU/l, TAG 208 mg/dl.
Iron metabolism: iron 34 mcg/dl, IST 14%, Ferritina 879 ng/ml, transferrin 193 mg/dl.
Microbiology: Mantoux: 10 mm Hemoculture and urocultive: negative.
CRL: implanted cells 12/mm3; proteins 32 mg/dL were not observed.
PCR for M. tuberculosis negative in CSF Antigenic determination of RSV, influenza A and B negative.
B. Pertussis CPR: negative.
Mic tuberculosis homogenous CPR in negative gastric juice (2 samples) Imaging studies brain and abdominal : normal Rx PA (10 days after): Imager showed nodular TB with milia admission.
EVOLUTION Hospitalization (2 weeks): On admission, pyridoxine was positive for tuberculosis (15kg/day), and when miliary tuberculosis was suspected, treatment with pyridoxine isoniazid (30mg/kg/day) was initiated.
When radiologically confirmed a pattern compatible with miliary tuberculosis, etambuco (15mg/kg/day) and prednisone (1.5 mg/kg/day) were associated with treatment.
After performing respiratory isolation, and given the good clinical status and excellent oral tolerance, it was decided to discharge, continuing treatment and outpatient follow-up. It is confirmed that the antibiogram performed according to PCR used to the father is sensitive to antituberculin drugs.
The mother is currently being treated with isoniazidB6 when she has latent tuberculosis infection.
There is no record of any other tuberculosis patient in the family.
Follow-up at discharge: Good tolerance to tuberculosis treatment, with favorable evolution DIAGNOSTIC FINAL TBC Miliar
