A 67-year-old man with a history of chronic▁lymphocytic leukemia diagnosed one year ago in chemotherapy, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ectomized steroid).
The patient was admitted to the emergency department with a 3-month history of mild to moderate dyspnea. During the last 3 days, minimal efforts were made, and the patient presented dry cough and fever up to 38.5°C.
Physical examination revealed tachycardia, polypnea, mucosal▁rigidity, and left binasal crypts (affective and normotensive).
The initial laboratory tests showed hypochromic microcytic anemia (hematogenous: 26%), leukocytosis of 20,600 with 78% neutrophils, and ESR 51 mm/hr.
Renal function and coagulation tests were normal.
Chest X-ray shows multiple foci of bilateral condensation.
She was admitted with a diagnosis of multifocal pneumonia and intravenous antibiotic treatment was initiated.
Chest CT shows bilateral parenchymal lung phenomena, which are interpreted as infectious, and signs of bilateral pulmonary fibrosis, with a nonspecific pattern (probably secondary to cytotoxic drugs).
Diagnosis: Gastric mucormycosis CT of the abdomen and pelvis highlights parietal thickening of the gastric fundus, associated with increased lymph nodes in size of the gastroheptic ligament.
High digestive endoscopy showed ulcerated body lesion with neoplasic appearance (Bormann II), which was biopsied.
The patient has a favorable evolution, so he is discharged with oral antibiotic treatment, and then decide on the conduct of the gastric lesion.
Histopathological report showed chronic gastritis exacerbated with fungal colonies, which later the culture would confirm Rhyzopus Cryzae as filariasis, compatible with Mucormycosis G.
Re-admission to start systemic amphotericin B.
Infirmed persistently, Jnte evolves with gastric involvement and then with pulmonary embolism (confirmed with CT angiography), which requires starting anticoagulant therapy, despite the high risk.
Two days later, the patient developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding with hemodynamic compromise that responded to medical management.
Finally, she developed progressive respiratory failure and acute renal failure, so antifungal therapy was discontinued.
The patient died one month after diagnosis.
Axial section and consolidation of chest, abdomen and pelvis CT: sagittal and coronal, with oral and intravenous contrast.
It highlights parietal thickening of the gastric fundus in partially distended stomach.
