A 70-year-old male presented with hypertension, type II DM with poor control, ischemic-hypertensive heart disease with involvement of the anterior descending coronary artery stenosis who was revascularized 7 years earlier with pending aortic fracture lined with two stents.
The mean rectal neoplasm was operated on in another center three months earlier, and the diagnosis was established.
During admission she suffered from severe sepsis, requiring admission to intensive care and placement of a central catheter.
Since then, several patients were admitted to the district hospital with dyspnea and fever due to respiratory and urinary infections, which were satisfactorily resolved with empirical treatment.
Current treatment: bisoprolol, simvastatin, glibenclamide, metformin/sitagliptin, ASA, zolpidem, candesartan/ hydrochlorothiazide.
She was admitted to our hospital due to acute pulmonary edema for surgical repair of severe aortic stenosis.
Five days after admission she had a fever peak of 38oC without other symptoms and was extracted from blood.
Acute deterioration of renal function is observed in the laboratory, with creatinine 1.5 mg/dl, urea 105 mg/dl and estimated creatinine clearance of 47 ml/min, 21600 leukocytes with 95% neutrophils, procalcitonin 6.9 mg.
The chest X-ray showed a normal cardiothoracic index, aortic annulus calcification, and prominence of the aortic arch, without interstitial lung involvement, condensation, blurring of costophrenic sinuses or other abnormalities.
The laboratory of Microbiology reports the growth of Gram-positive▁cocci identified as Staphylococcus aureus by MALDI-TOF in the blood.
With this information, a clinical assessment of the patient by the PROA team is made.
Differential diagnosis We found a male with severe aortic stenosis, pending surgical intervention, who had fever and positive blood cultures for S. aureus without other accompanying symptoms.
The differential diagnoses to be considered in this patient with S. aureus bacteremia are: • Infectious endocarditis.
In favor of this diagnosis are the presence of S. aureus in two blood cultures performed separately, fever of more than 38oC, aortic valve involvement (predisposing cardiac anomaly).
However, it has only one major criterion and two minor criteria of the modified Duke criteria.
• Catheter infection
The patient has a peripheral pathway at the time of peak fever without erythema, edema, palpable cord or induration, which makes this diagnosis very unlikely.
• Infectious or pyogenic spondylodiscitis.
Diagnosis to be taken into account when isolated in hemocultives S. aureus.
The patient is a diabetic and suffers a neoplasia, both factors are considered.
However, there is no back or back pain and the clinical presentation is acute, making this diagnosis less likely.
The mitral valve was closed. The differential diagnosis was made by echocardiography due to the high clinical suspicion of endocarditis, informing us of the presence of a mobile, round and calcified image of 1.32 x 1.1 cm mobile in the mitral valve.
Transesophageal echocardiography was requested, confirming the existence of mitral valve stenosis, severe mitral regurgitation and severely calcified aortic valve with reduced opening.
TTE: Electrical valve vegetation.
The result of echocardiography in conjunction with hemocultives establishes the diagnosis of endocarditis, defined by meeting two major Duke criteria.
Due to the absence of key symptoms and clinical examination, other diagnoses are ruled out.
Given the risk of S. aureus resistant to nosocomial infection and the patient's renal impairment, with glomerular filtration rate <50 ml/min, it was decided to start treatment with daptomycin at a dose of 10 mg/kg.
The next day, the results of the antibiogram confirm the presence of resistant S. aureus sensitive to vancomycin (MIC 1 mcg/mL) and daptomycin (MIC 0.25 mcg/mL).
Every 48-72 hours hemocultive control is performed due to the persistence of fever, being positive the first two tandes performed.
In the second stage, after six days of treatment, a new study of resistance was requested, associating cloxacillin to the treatment until the results of the antibiogram were available.
We report daptomycin resistance with a MIC of 2 mcg/mL.
Upon reviewing the analytical, the improvement of the patient's renal function (creatinine 0.9 mg/ dl), reason why we switched to vancomycin, with a MIC of 1 mcg/mL.
During treatment, the patient again suffers acute pulmonary edema, is admitted to the ICU and valve replacement is performed urgently.
The surgeon describes the presence of endocarditis of the posterior mitral leaflet and part of the anteroposterior commissure, with an abscess at the posterior ring level and involvement of the atrioventricular groove.
After cleaning and exeresis of devitalized and infected tissues, the AV groove is repaired with teflon band and the mitral and aortic valves are replaced by bioprosthesis.
The valve is sent for culture and methicillin resistant S. aureus grows, but is again sensitive to damomycin.
Treatment with vancomycin is maintained and goes up to the floor for continuity of care.
The fever peak is new, daptomycin-susceptible S. aureus and vancomycin is isolated again. The latter is maintained for six weeks after the last positive blood culture adjusted to valle blood levels (2600 mg / ml).
Final diagnosis: Infectious colitis affecting the native mitral valve caused by MRSA, complicated with perivalvular abscess, acute renal failure and development of resistance to daptomycin.
