Anamnesis We report the case of a 40-year-old female patient who consulted due to painful swelling in her first finger of the right foot for two months, and who presented with swelling of the face and face.
His personal history included systemic lupus erythematosus and iron deficiency anemia.
She had previously received topical and oral treatment with several cycles of antibiotics, including Cloxacillin and topical ciprofloxacin, for less than two weeks, practically without improvement.
He had not had fever or dysthermic sensation since the onset of symptoms, and denied any other symptoms by devices of interest.
The patient did not report similar previous episodes and related this condition with an injury to an iron during her stay in an aquatic park.
Physical examination The patient was in good general condition and was suffering from▁malaise and hemodynamically stable.
▁Dermatological physical examination revealed small erythematous-violaceous▁papules on the upper and lower faces of the first right toe, a larger size than the puncture drained purulent material.
He had no lesions in other fingers or in contralateral foot, and had no nail involvement.
▁Complementary findings Direct examination was negative in the mycological study and 5 Candida lusitaniae colonies were isolated in the culture, with no clinical relevance.
Microbiological culture of the pus sample with swab was negative.
Skin biopsy of the lesion was performed for histological and microbiological study.
Histopathological examination showed mild hyperplasia of the epidermis accompanied by hyperkeratosis and parakeratosis, with occasional pustules in the corneal layer.
In the superficial dermis, granulomatous inflammatory infiltrate with multinucleated giant cells that sometimes formed granulomas was identified, and foci of suppurative necrosis were isolated.
Microbiological culture of the biopsy in liquid medium (at 37oC) was negative at 45 days.
Two colony-forming units (CSC) were isolated from a photochromogenic mycobacterial culture in solid medium (collections) at room temperature.
Subsequently, a▁chromogenic colony was subjected to molecular genetic analysis using the ASTM Mycobacterium method, which includes 27 different mycobacterial species.
The procedure is divided into three steps: isolation of DNA from culture, amplification with primers marked with biotin (not including thermostable DNA polymerase) and reverse hybridization.
The system is based on the amplification of a specific genetic zone with subsequent hybridization of the amplification product in the different probes arranged in a nitrobridged strip.
A template ensures the simple and rapid interpretation of the band scheme obtained.
According to this scheme, nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) Mycobacterium marinum was isolated in our case.
Obtaining a suitable sample for culture allows isolating the germ more easily, being the purulent material where it is the highest concentration.
Moreover, the temperature of the culture is also essential, since Mycobacterium marinum has an optimal growth temperature between 30 and 33oC.
The patient discontinued treatment 18 days after starting treatment due to antibiotics. Consequently, a probiotic was administered and the regimen was changed to a D-shaped capsule confirmed as minimal diarrhea every 24 hours.
Conventional drug susceptibility testing is not recommended for most nontuberculous mycobacteria, except in certain species or in the event of therapeutic failure.
These tests are not recommended for this species, which is sensitive to rifampicin, etambu bag, tetra, clarithromycins and cotrimoxazole.
Some isolates are resistant to ciprofloxacin, and monotherapy with fluoroquinolones may facilitate the development of resistance, therefore it is not advisable to use these drugs as monotherapy in the initial treatment.
Costtula fixed at one month and a half with probiotics and Doxy evidenced 100 mg every 24 hours with good tolerance. The lesions had returned markedly, presenting at that time a flat myeloid lesions with a residual appearance.
Treatment for this type of infection should be continued for at least four months.
Diagnosis Mycobacterium marinum infection or piscin granuloma.
Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment was initiated with 100 mg Doxybate every 12 hours before culture results were obtained and given the high diagnostic suspicion.
