Anamnesis A 43-year-old man, without known allergies, without vascular risk factors or toxic consumption, surgically intervened in 2010 of a ruptured left hemibody tendon, sudden visual field loss, followed by field loss.
He also reported oppressive holocraneal headache associated with nausea and vomiting.
He denied fever and traumatic brain injury, and did not remember having had infectious symptoms in the last weeks.
Location: Hemodynamically stable.
Good general condition.
Carotids, symmetrical, without murmurs.
No goiter or lymphadenopathy.
Cardiopulmonary arrest: mental, without murmurs.
Conservated vesicular murmur.
Abdomen blushing, depressible, painless, no masses or organomegaly, fluid-aerial noises.
Extremities: no edemas or signs of deep venous thrombosis, present and symmetrical pulses.
Neurological assessment: conscious and oriented.
Heminegligence with left asomatopognosia, anosognosia and astereognosia.
Normal language
Cholesterols and normoreactive.
Eye fundus was unchanged.
Left hemianopsia.
Extrinsic ocular movements without restrictions.
No facial palsy or alteration of lower cranial nerves.
Muscle balance 5/5 in all muscle groups.
Normal muscle tone and spasm.
Generalised osteotendinous flaps 2/4
Cutaneous-plantar bilateral flexor contracture.
retainable.
No dysmetria or dysdiadochokinesia.
Romberg negative.
Normal gait.
No meningeal signs.
▁Complementary tests • Laboratory data: normal blood count and coagulation.
Ionogram, blood glucose, renal and hepatic function and iron metabolism were unremarkable.
Thyroid hormones were normal.
Tumor Markers (annxiety of Cabrionario, 125 Ca 15.3, Ca 19.9, alpha-fetoprotein PSA) were unchanged.
Angiotensin converting enzyme 25.3 (20-60); rheumatoid factor 27.3 IU/ml (< 20); C3 152 mg/dl (75-135); C4 27 mg/microdl (14-60); IgG, IgA and IgA negative
VSG 12 (0-20).
• Chest X-ray: enlarged hilium.
Cardiothoracic index was within normal range.
No infiltrates or signs of pleural effusion.
• Cranial computed tomography (CT): poorly defined hypodense area right subcortical parietooccipital with dubious contrast uptake.
Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): right temporo-right hyperintense on T2 and FLAIR with extension and contralateral hemi-occipital lesion, with callfero-occipital lesion and contralateral hip fracture.
Irregular enhancement after contrast administration.
Brain MRI, FLAIR sequence.
Hyperintense temporo-occipital lesion extending to the corpus callosum and the contralateral hemisphere.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study: 30/mcl cysts, < 5/mcl cells.
IgG 2.73 mg/ dl (0-3.40); IgM 0.05 mg/dl (0-1.30), albumin 15.9 mg/dl (0-35); Tibbling index for IgG 1.05 (0.30-0.70); IgM-0.
Specific bands are observed in CSF of IgG; beta-2-microglobulin 2 mg/l (1-1); angiotensin converting enzyme 25.3 units ACE (20-60); total▁adenosine 30.520 (ADA) 2.7 IU/l).
• Microbiological study: negative serology for syphilis, Brucella, Toxoplasma, Rickettsia (Barrelia, HIV, HBV and HCV, VZV, CMV, EBV, HRV and 6MV).
Sterile culture in CSF.
• Spectroscopy: image not suggestive of tumor tissue.
• Computed positron emission tomography (PET/CT): bilateral and symmetrical uptake of mediastinal lymph nodes and bilateral hiliar that seem to be of infectious origin.
No brain uptake was observed.
• Computed tomography (CT) of the chest: mediastinal lymph nodes and bilateral hiliar lymph nodes within normal limits of probable infectious or granulomatous origin.
• Fibrobronchoscopy: A biopsy of the lymph nodes is performed, obtaining a sample for pathology, which reports smears with presence of the wall of the bronchus and lymph node, in which a reactive pattern with granulomas is observed.
Diagnosis Sarcoidosis with neurological (diffuse white matter lesion) and pulmonary (stage I according to radiological classification) manifestations.
Secondary focal epilepsy of the right temporal lobe.
Treatment and evolution During hospitalization, after starting valproate at a dose of 1,500 mg daily, the patient did not develop new▁epileptic seizures.
Headache, visual field defect and sensory disturbance resolved spontaneously and was asymptomatic at the time of discharge.
Once the diagnosis of sarcoidosis was confirmed by histological study and the tumor etiology was ruled out, treatment with prednisone at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day for 4 weeks was indicated, with disappearance of the neuroimaging control lesion.
