MCSS.
A six-year-old female patient, born in the state of San Luis Potosí, with residence in the Acantzen neighborhood of Tanchahuil town in San Antonio municipality, in the same state.
The patient was taken by her father to the health center, where the medical staff asked for consultation to make the diagnosis.
The interview was conducted directly and indirectly through interviews with the father.
She started her current illness on May 5, 2007, after the bite of the transmitting insect insect during the night. On the following day she had a constant unquantified fever blood collection of Trypanosoma cruzi blood spot, which was spontaneously remitted by another blood collection.
The forensic epidemiologist establishes communication with the Parasite Biology Laboratory of the Faculty of Medicine of UNAM on May 15 to request confirmation of the diagnosis and specific treatment.
The next day the patient was visited at home to conduct the epidemiological clinical study with clinical history, evaluation of the house and sampling for the parasitic and serological diagnosis.
The personal history was not pathological and pathological, without importance for the current illness.
He has a history of epidemiological importance related to living with the transmitting insect from birth inside the house, as well as the capture of a triatomine within it, which is corroborated by the identification of a dialect orchard by the patient.
Another important antecedent is the characteristics of the house, which presents construction materials considered to be risk for the presence of the transmitter (hygienic burial, ground floor and palm roof), besides bad conditions.
The transfusion history was negative.
On physical examination, the most relevant data were Romaña's sign in left eye, accompanied by erythema, pruritus and retroocular pain, and left preauricular and submaxillary adenomegaly.
Heart sounds were normal, but there was no hepatomegaly; lower limbs showed no edema.
Parasitological diagnosis was confirmed by the Parasite Biology Laboratory, by observing smears and their isolation in culture medium NNN and LIT.
Hematic biochemistry, blood chemistry, general urine test and liver function tests were requested, which were normal, since treatment was initiated under the supervision of a physician under jurisdictionzol at a dose of 10 mg/kg of health adverse epidemy.
After treatment, serologically monitored with indirect ELISA and IFI every six months for year and a half, whose titers were, respectively, 0.231 D.O.
And 1:256 at six months,
and 1:128 at 12 months, and 0.021 D.O.
e 1:64 at 18 months; ECG was performed six months after treatment, whose interpretation was normal.
The patient is asymptomatic and currently in apparent good health.
