A 31-year-old male patient, construction worker.
No known drug allergies, half pack/day ex-smoker for 5 years, no excessive drinker, no other toxics consumer.
No relevant personal or family history.
Background, current illness and physical examination Being previously asymptomatic presents intense pain, coldness and generalized tenderness in the left hand of sudden onset (without previous trauma) while performing daily activities for health.
Since no radial or ulnar pulse was found, the patient was referred to our hospital where she was assessed in the emergency department for vascular surgery. The patient documented acute occlusion of the cardiobrachial artery and underwent an urgent echocardiogram without pathology.
Physical examination revealed that the patient was in good general condition, conscious, oriented and cooperative.
Well hydrated and infused, eupneic at rest and▁tolerating decubitus.
Afebrile, TA: 110/70, HR 70xmin, normal cardiopulmonary auscultation, without clinical heart failure.
Embolectomy wound in the SIJ with no complication data.
Completely normal physical examination.
A bedside transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) was performed, which showed a mass in the lateral wall of the left atrium and was admitted to the Cardiology department for study.
▁Complementary tests • Analytical: complete blood count, coagulation and coagulation without mention data.
• Electrocardiogram: Keep sinus rhythm, no repolarization abnormalities, conduction disturbances or findings suggestive of cavity growth are found.
• Chest X-ray: Normal heart silhouette.
No congestive pattern, no pleural effusion.
No space occupying images in the pulmonary parenchyma.
• TTE/TE echocardiography + 3D ECHO: A 40x27 mm mass occupying the entire left atrial appendage, protrudes outside it towards the atrium, and shows more irregular echogenicity margins with some surface.
The left pulmonary veins are not patent, with normal flow.
ADA and ACX are seen in the AV groove below the atrial appendage, without being attached.
Mitral valve, aortic valve, and normal right valves
Left ventricle with normal dimensions, wall thickness and▁contractility.
Normal right cavities.
No pericardial effusion.
• Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): Tissue formation in the left atrium completely occupying the atrial appendage and extends into the auricular cavity as a vegetating mass with well-defined and adhered contours.
It measures approximately 4cm in its maximum axis, which is craneo.
Four-chamber plane measures approximately 34x27mm.
Although it is adjacent to the pulmonary ostium, they remain permeable.
It is not related to the mitral valve or atrial septum.
It has homogeneous and intermediate signal intensity in all sequences.
In late enhancement sequences, annular fine peripheral enhancement is observed in myxomas.
There were no changes in thickness and segmental and global▁contractility or alterations in tissue signal or late enhancement in myocardium.
No anatomical cardiovascular alterations were observed.
Clinical manifestations: The patient remains asymptomatic and has no incidence during his stay in the hospital ward.
Comments on the imaging tests revealed a differential diagnosis between atrial myxoma located at the apex vs. thrombus.
The pathological study of embolic material found high-grade cellular atypia suggestive of malignancy.
The case is consulted with Cardiac Surgery and it is accepted for resection of the mass under cardiopulmonary bypass performing the procedure without complications.
The intraoperative pathological study confirmed high-grade dysplasia and left atrial appendage was▁resected in all its extension achieving lesion-free margins.
During his stay in the ICU he evolved favorably without presenting incidences and after his stabilization he went to the Cardiac Surgery plant.
The definitive study of the pathological anatomy of the▁resected mass is reported as Sarcoma Pleo Indifferentiation, an extension study is carried out with CAT scan and outpatient follow-up where there are no documented metastatic lesions anticoagulated
Two weeks after surgery, the patient was readmitted for clinical symptoms compatible with embolic profile stroke secondary to tandem occlusion of the left internal carotid artery and left middle cerebral artery.
The patient was successfully treated by mechanical thrombectomy and there was no residual neurologic deficit. The pathological study of embolic material confirmed the tumor etiology.
The patient was subsequently admitted to the adrenal gland. A CT scan was performed and an extension study (craneal MRI, CT scan and preoperative bone scan) was performed. The mass in the left atrium was similar in size and size.
Chemotherapy with adriamycin is initiated.
Despite chemotherapy, the patient has an unfavorable evolution and dies three months after the initial diagnosis.
Diagnosis • Sarcoma cardiaco pleo undifferentiated with early recurrence after surgical resection.
• Rapidly progressive multiple metastatic disease.
