Personal history and current medical history A 58-year-old man with a history of hypertension and hyperuricemia with gout crisis.
Chronic renal failure known since July 2012.
Hernia discal L5-S1.
She was admitted from infectious CCEE with a diagnosis of fever of unknown origin of prolonged duration.
Five months prior, the patient presented with a low-grade fever, up to 38oC, intermittent in onset, without symptoms by devices.
No relevant epidemiological history except contact with correctly vaccinated dog.
On the day of admission, the patient again complained of fever lasting up to 2-3 days per week, with mild epigastric pain and vomiting in the last few days, so we decided to admit the patient for further study.
Physical examination upon arrival showed good general condition, conscious and oriented.
Good hydration of skin and mucous membranes.
Eupneic at rest, blood pressure levels 125/68 mmHg.
No palpable lymph nodes or goiter.
Cardiac auscultation revealed hypersensitivity, no murmurs or extracts.
At the pulmonary level, he had good vesicular murmur without pathological sounds.
The abdomen was blade, depressible without enlargement, with mild discomfort to constipation at the epigastric level.
No lower limb edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
No neck stiffness or skin lesions.
ORL without findings.
Initial complementary tests The tests performed in the Infectious Diseases Unit in our patient were as follows: CBC: hemoglobin 11 mg/dL normal leukocyte count 35% differential count, normal corpuscular volume 59 mm platelet count normal white blood cell count 6890
Biochemistry: creatinine 1.23 mg/dl, urea 53.3 mg/dl, liver and pancreatic function, lipid profile and thyroid hormones within normal limits.
Immunoglobulins and normal proteinogram.
Rheumatoid factor IgM, antinuclear antibodies, tumor markers and negative bacilloscopy.
Serial blood cultures and occult blood in negative stools
Rose Bengala, serology toxoplasma, cytomegalo, Epstein Neuvirus virus, serology luetic, HIV mycobacterial assemblages Legcoion negative, leishmania, antigenuria
As for imaging tests, an abdominal ultrasound was initially performed, showing probable hepatic steatosis, simple cyst (18*15 mm) in segment II, III and IV.
Prostate increased in size with calcification in its thickness secondary to previous prostatitis.
In the▁thorax/abdomen CAT scan as a data to be highlighted is the presence of supravascular mediastinal adenopathies (the largest at the pretracheal level and the retrocaval lung with a smaller axis of 8.5 mm).
Bilateral hiliar adenopathies (the largest in the left) with a 1 cm axis without parenchymal alteration.
Abdominally, slight hepatomegaly with small cystic formations compatible with biliary cysts, slight enlargement is observed.
Small retrocrural adenopathies, mesentery and retroperitoneal of non-significant size.
Echocardiography showed no vegetations.
An inter-consultation sheet was made to Hematology for evaluation of bone study in the presence of generalized adenopathy, but finally it was not carried out, not impressive peripheral blood marrow findings due to peripheral adenopathy.
Blood tests were requested to study anemia.
The initial fever was 38oC, and the patient was admitted to the hospital with a favorable evolution.
Upon discharge, asymptomatic and afflicted, the patient was referred to infectious CCEE for follow-up. The result of the biopsy was pending and the study was scheduled according to the findings.
Initial clinical judgement Prolonged intermittent fever without focality and generalized lymphadenopathies under study.
Duodenal mucosa pending pathological diagnosis.
hepatitis, abnormal liver function test abnormal
Final diagnostic test Digestive Endoscopy - High: stomach, pylorus and bulb within normal limits.
Moderate oedema along with multiple white deposits in rice grain in second duodenal portion.
Biopsy is taken.
diagnosis and treatment with intravenous administration (16 weeks for duodenal biopsy we can conclude that we are facing a case of Whipple et void residual disease for Unamethoxa (2800 tablets obtained pathological result being conclusive diagnosis, inform patient and decide
The patient was reviewed in consultation, the last in April 2013 (after 14 months of treatment) finding the patient asymptomatic and fever, it was decided to end antibiotic treatment, scheduled to perform Altalio remission therapy, and management of remission.
