A 40-year-old, single man lives with his parents, with computer engineering studies, having developed work in different companies such as engineers, with good working conditions, with promotions and positive evaluation of their functioning.
As a result of the closure of the last company where he worked, he was in parish, remaining in that situation in the last two years.
He has come to several work interviews, but he established job and economic requirements that caused labor rejection.
The family reported that she asked for high salaries, had a pre-powered and contemptful attitude towards the interviewers.
She has no relevant medical history.
Family psychiatric history is multiple and not very specific, highlighting problems with the use of psychiatric drugs in a paternal relationship, possible celiac disease in an aggressive father and grandfather, without a definite diagnosis and alcohol consumption that justify it.
She has a healthy sister.
The family defines it as an egocentric, cold, distant, reserved person who gave great importance to his social status and physical appearance.
He had excellent academic and work performance later.
She had a relationship with her partner, with rupture when she was 22 years old and said that she was later isolated and dedicated to studying intensely.
Regarding the toxicological history, she reported occasional alcohol consumption, presenting important behavioral alterations when consuming it in small quantities, so she does not usually drink.
She also had occasional cocaine consumption.
She has consumed cannabis in an unpredictable quantity in the years prior to the onset of her disease, up to 36 years.
The patient tends to minimize such consumption, which was usually solitary and with a tapering pattern, so the family cannot provide information about it either.
It is not possible to specify the start of consumption, but it seems that it lasted for a number of years.
It seems evident that after the onset of psychotic symptoms, consumption has totally ceased, as most of the time passes at home and the family supervises it and has not observed any resumption in isolation.
In addition, toxicological analyses performed later have always been negative.
Her psychotic condition begins paulatinely at the age of 36, when the family detects inappropriate behaviors such as smiling alone, distrust and verbal aggression.
He was working and reported that his superiors would harm him, presented uncontrolled laughs, talked alone and insulted people who were not present.
He acted sometimes as if he spoke to someone.
He told the family that they did not understand him because he was gifted, had a high sensory capacity, was able to listen to several conversations at the same time and could work with several computer screens simultaneously.
He put several passwords on his computer and took care that no one saw him working with him, saying that he made important projects that he wanted to steal.
For this reason, the patient was referred to psychiatric consultations after few visits.
At 38 years of age, the patient presented the first psychiatric admission due to an important hostility situation, with aggressive verbal and physical behaviors, showing too much mistrust.
He returned unmotivated, spoke only, said that people on the street were looking at him and talking to him, that his veiled face was about mentally ill, and that was why he had a mental illness.
He said there was a conspiracy against him, and that's why he wasn't hired.
She was more dysphoric, angry with the family for irrelevant things,▁putting the television at all volumes.
He talked about an important project that was secret, even "it was secret to him" and there were people trying to get it.
During admission, the patient was very defensive, minimizing his problems, rationalizing all symptoms, with no awareness of disease, and it is very difficult to obtain information about his family and blaming the family.
Oral contraceptives were prescribed with very good response to treatment.
Two years later, the patient returned to another hospital admission after abandoning the pharmacological treatment, with no evidence of resumption of toxic substances, with a similar clinical presentation.
He had distrust of the family, with threats to them, extravagant conducts such as taking only bottled water and eating only what he was preparing, with the persian saying all day long spent in the house.
▁Sensory-perceptual alterations were not observed, prevailing the idea of loss and greatness and the suspicious attitude, with a discourse without awareness of all the disease and not very concrete, justifying all the distant contact.
Cold and embodied affectivity, impoverishment at the level of thinking and significant social isolation predominated in the negative symptoms.
At discharge she was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia.
Treatment with risperidone long-acting 50 mg every two weeks and oral choleraperidone 12 mg daily was prescribed, with good tolerance and remission of productive symptoms.
In the subsequent follow-up, there is good compliance with the treatment, without side effects, without drug use and very good control of positive symptoms.
Affirms the negative symptoms, with a poor speech, an important social isolation and flattening.
