Background, current disease and physical examination 40 year old patient attended the consultation for adult congenital heart disease in our hospital, which is a reference center in our autonomous community.
He was being followed up for 21 years by his area cardiologist.
Non-cardiac pathological history: hepatitis C, mental retardation.
Cardiac history: patient diagnosed at birth with Tetralogy of Fallot (presented a pulmonary stenosis at valve and subvalvular level, a ventricular septal defect (VSD) at the subaortic level, and aortic hypertrophy, cabal
At 7 months of life, palliative surgical treatment was performed by performing a right Waterston fistula which is a systemic-pulmonary fistula consisting of performing an ascending latero-lateral anastomosis of the left anterior wall of the aorta Gore 4 mm.
At 16 months of life, a new surgery was required to increase the fistula.
At 20 months, it was decided to perform a complete surgical correction with closure of Waterston's fistula, infundibular resection, opening of the annulus and pulmonary trunk with implantation of a transcatheter patch and closure of the septal patch.
At 7 years of age, she required a new surgery with enlargement of both pulmonary branches with Da-type patch, closure of ductus arteriosus which was found to be permeable and closure of a residual shunt Waterston through the fistula.
At 20 years of age, the patient was reoperated for residual VSD and severe stenosis of the left pulmonary branch (the VSD was closed with loose stitches and the left pulmonary branch was extended plasty).
Since then, she has not been followed up in a specific consultation for congenital heart disease.
Atrial flutter since 2006, anticoagulated with acenocoumarol (family refusal to attempt electrical cardioversion).
Usual medication: acenocoumarol, bisoprolol 5 mg/24h, furosemide 40 mg/24h, digoxin 0.25 mg/24h.
Current history: the patient is referred to the age of 40 due to dyspnea on moderate exertion (NYHA functional class II) and chronic cough of several years of evolution.
Sedentary life.
During the last few years he reported that he had repeated bleedings in his reference hospital.
She presented with frequent episodes of gingivorragia and epistaxis and recurrent respiratory infections.
It is not usually vaccinated against influenza or pneumococcal disease.
Physical examination revealed: TA 110/60, basal sat O2 87%.
C. labialis and acra.
CA: rhythmic cardiac tones, grade II-III/VI systolic murmur in pulmonary focus and left edge is diastolic murmur II/VI in pulmonary focus.
PA: left basal hypoventilation.
Abdominal: 1-degree relatives of painful finger hepatomegaly.
Hepatojugular reflex ++.
Lower extremities: cutaneous trophic disorders without edema.
▁Complementary tests Electrocardiogram: atrial flutter with mean ventricular response at 70 bpm.
BRDHH.
QRS 200 msec.
Signs of right volume overload
Chest radiography: cardiomegaly.
Elevated left hemidiaphragm.
No pleuroparenchymal findings of acute evolution were observed.
Symmetric pulmonary vascularisation.
Blood analysis: biochemistry: urea 40, Cr 0.89, normal.
Acquirement 7.8 mg/dl.
Bilirubin 1.7 mg/dl.
Liver enzymes were normal.
Iron metabolism: serum ferritin 35 μg/l, transferrin saturation index 25%.
Blood count: hemoglobin 15.5 g/dl, hematocrit 47.5%.
Platelets 153,000.
Leukocytes 8,800 with 60% neutrophils.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: normal left ventricle (LVEF 57%).
septal motion to flattened.
Eccentricity index >1.
Dilated right ventricle (approximate RV outflow tract 43 mm, distal RV outflow tract 41 mm, RV inflow tract 52 mm), moderately hypocontractile wave (SAPSE 14 mm).
▁Right atrium (area 45 cm2).
Mitral and aortic valves showed no structural or functional changes.
Residual leak in VSD closure patch of 4.5 mm with exclusive left-right shunt and LV-RV gradient of 75 mmHg.
Significant pulmonary insufficiency (recruitment index 0.62, HPT <100 msec, protodiastolic gradient of 14 mmHg).
Systolic gradient in RVOT 23 mmHg.
Dilated pulmonary trunk (34 mm), right pulmonary branch 21 mm, could not visualize left pulmonary branch.
IT grade II, RV-AD gradient 33 mmHg.
IVC 15 mm with correct inspiratory collapse.
PAPs estimated 40 mmHg.
Thin interatrial septum, hypermobile towards the right and left atrium, which does not seem to be perforated by this access route.
No pericardial effusion.
Normal aortic arch.
Dyspnoea and chronic hypoxemia syndrome are present, since the patient presents with cold lip and acral effort, increased hemoglobin and hematocrit concentration, episturic, gingivorragia and respiratory infections
Hypoxemia can be of environmental cause (great altitude), alveolar hypoventilation, by alteration of the alveolar-capilary diffusion, imbalance in ventilation/perfusion or by the presence of a right-sided anatomical shunt.
In our case, the a priori mechanisms that hypothetically adjust more to the origin of this hypoxemia would be due to misfit in ventilation/perfusion or to a right-to-left anatomical shortcut not well evaluated.
Cyanotic congenital heart disease (CHD) comprises a heterogeneous group of lesions with different anatomy and pathophysiology.
Diagnosis Tetralogy of Fallot with Waterston fistula at 7 months and complete correction at 20 months.
Pulmonary branching in the last 7 years
Residual communication closure and enlargement of the left pulmonary branch at 20 years of age.
Chronic hypoxemia syndrome secondary to multiperforated atrial septum with bidirectional shunt.
Severe pulmonary insufficiency with dilated and hypocontractile RV.
