Anamnesis An 84-year-old woman, drug reaction to the azithromycin, with no confirmation of allergy, personal history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia and transient ischemic attack type motor aphasia in 2011.
She came to the emergency room due to severe headache and persistent vomiting in the last 48 hours, as well as behavior alterations, oscillations in the level of consciousness and self-limiting episodes of difficulty in mobilizing the right limbs together.
To associate dysthermic sensation and anorexia without infectious symptoms of any apparatus.
Physical examination revealed arterial hypertension 100/50 mmHg, heart rate 100 bpm, saturation 96%.
Temperature 36.5 °C.
Awareness, regular general condition, mucocutaneous dryness.
Well hydrated.
Cardiac arrest: rhythmic tones without murmurs.
The vesicular eruption is preserved: mucus in all lung fields.
The abdomen was blushing, depressible, with no masses or organomegaly.
Conserved air-fluids
Lower extremities without edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Neurological coping: mental illness with difficulties in understanding and executing simple orders, conserved language but with difficulties in understanding and responding sometimes unconnected occasionally.
Limitation in seizure of both eyes suggesting paresis of the sixth bilateral pair.
Mild right central facial paresis.
Muscle balance in the right limbs 4/5, left without alterations.
Osteotendinous present and symmetrical features.
Feasibility without alterations.
▁Complementary tests • Urgent blood analysis: hemoglobin 9.3 g/dl, hematocrit 28.6%, mean corpuscular volume 10 sodium1dl coagulation proteins 11.4 thousand/mm3, platelets 4000/mm3, total bilirubin 0.3 mg/dl
Urine: bacterial flora 2+, proteinuria 2+.
• Blood analysis: hemoglobin/ 12.5 g/dl, hematocrit 33.7%, mean corpuscular volume 102.3 %, platelet count 12.09%, leukocyte count 269.4 thousand/mm3, platelet count 14 thousand/mm3.
Morphology peripheral blood: schistocytes 3-4 and spherocytes 2%.
Haptoglobin 7.56 mg/dl.
Study of cellular immunity, complement, study of autoimmunity, serology (blue, toxoplasma, immunodeficiency virus, Eplia immunodeficiency virus, vitamin B12 virus, herpes simplex virus, herpes simplex virus,
• Blood analysis at discharge: hemoglobin 10.3 g/dl, hematocrit 31.6%, mean corpuscular volume 105 leukocytes 12.7 thousand/mm3, platelets 202 thousand/mm3.
• Urgent brain magnetic resonance: no significant changes.
Diagnosis Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.
Treatment Platelet transfusion.
Transfusion of insurances
Plasmapheresis.
Establishment plan
Given the clinical instability of the patient, admission to the Intensive Care Unit was decided for study and follow-up.
Upon admission, transfusion of intravenous concentrates was started, platelets and platelets was started, and treatment with corticoids was initiated clinically (occurring with disappearance of 500 mg every 12 hours).
Due to the persistence of the alteration at the level of analytical parameters, the case is evaluated together with Hematology, which recommends the performance of daily plasmapheresis (15 in total).
After stabilization of the clinical picture, the patient is transferred to the Hematology Service.
With good general condition and recovery of analytical figures, discharge was decided at home after 30 days of hospitalization.
