Anamnesis A 42-year-old woman, with no personal or family history of interest, came to the emergency department with an insect bite in her right hand 5 days before.
He reported that, when cleaning the rear of his hand, he noticed a bite on the back of his hand, and then he shook the same color as a darker insect on the back of his back.
A few hours after the sting, the patient presented pain, swelling and erythema of the hand and right forearm, with difficulty in finger flexion due to severe pain, and generalized pruritic arthritis and a rash was observed 24 hours later.
Your primary care doctor prescribed a dose of parenteral methylprednisolone, analgesics, and oral antihistamines.
After 3 days, the symptoms persisted for what was referred to our service.
Physical examination revealed a tapering, eupneic, and stable from a hemodynamic point of view.
On the dorsum of the right hand, the patient presented an erythematous macule with poorly defined violaceous edges and a white, yellowish-white center, with mild erythema and minimal edema in the perilesional area.
A certain reduction in the mobility of the fingers of the hand was observed due to intense pain, without loss of strength or associated sensitivity.
There was no articular swelling or subcutaneous crepitation.
He also had a generalized macular rash with involvement of the face, trunk, extremities and palms of both hands, without petechiae or ecchymosis.
There was no involvement of oral or genital mucosa and accessible lymph node chain lymphadenopathies were not observed.
▁Complementary tests Blood count, biochemistry, blood coagulation and serology samples were taken, as well as X-rays of the right hand indicated by traumatology.
The hemogram showed minimal leukocytosis with predominance of neutrophils and mild▁lymphopenia, with no changes in the eosinophil count.
Hemoglobin, count of▁parasites, hemostasis and coagulation were normal.
CRP was slightly increased.
Biochemistry showed normal hepatorenal profile, and hepatic malformations.
The serologies of HIV, syphilis, Borrellia burgdoferi, Ritessia and Leishmania were negative.
No space occupying lesions or osteomyelitis data were observed on the right hand radiography.
Diagnosis Arachn's bite, probably due to brownish araña associated systemic symptoms.
Treatment A descending dose of oral prednisone, analgesics and antihistamines was prescribed on demand, as well as periodic wound healing with disinfection and topical corticosteroid and antibiotic preparation.
The patient was discharged home with clinical and analytical control at 72 hours, indicating warning signs and symptoms before which he went to the emergency department again.
The patient remained seizure-free in the subsequent visits, 72 hours later and 7 days later, with progressive improvement in both local and systemic symptoms and no remarkable laboratory abnormalities.
