Clinical history.
Anamnesis A 63-year-old woman with the following personal history: hypertension, rectal cancer treated with surgery, hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism and radiotherapy (complete remission), lymphedema secondary to radiation therapy, peripheral cardiomyopathy, respiratory failure and anemia.
Usual treatment: enalapril, levothyroxine, rocaltrol and dementia. She was admitted to the Axarquia Hospital due to asthenia and progressive edema of both lower limbs, of 1 month duration.
In the last 2 weeks, acute gastroenteritis (prophylaxis with ciprofloxacin) and in the last days, erythematous lesions and increased temperature in the distal third of the right leg suggestive of right lower limb overtreatment were observed.
Occasionally, urinary incontinence, choluria and foamy urine, but denies voiding syndrome.
After treatment with furosemide and ceftriaxone IV, a decrease in peripheral edema but an increase in ascites was observed.
After this, she underwent an abdominal CAT with contrast and after 2 days, a new increase in edema, oligoanuria and deterioration of renal function (Creatinine 1.6 mg/dl).
For this reason, he was sent to HRU Carlos Haya to complete the study.
Location TA: 116/70.
Afebril.
Good general condition, conscious and oriented, eupneic at rest, well hydrated and perfused.
Pulmonary auscultation revealed crackles in the right base and hypoventilation in the left base.
Abdomen: hepatomegaly, edema of the wall in declining areas and hypogastrium and ascites.
Lower right limb: lymphedema to the thigh, with hot erythematous plaques in the pretibial area (uges) of urticaria.
Left lower limb: oedema to thigh without signs of DVT.
Additional tests CBC: normal except VSG 70 mm.
Coagulation: normal.
Biochemistry: Creatinine 1.24, cholesterol 226 (LDL 165), AST 110, ALT 39, FA 423, GGT 433, normal bilirubin.
LDH 270, Calcium 6.8, phosphorus▁3.9, total proteins 4.1, albumin 2.3, sodium, potassium, chlorine and PCR normal.
Sedation with isolated urine: 50 leukocytes/mL, proteins 500mg/dL.
Proteinogram: proteins 4.2, albumin 2, beta globulin 0.4, gamma globulin 0.5, no monoclonal component was observed.
IgA 72,IgM 176, IgG 415.
Ferritine 79, normal thyroid profile, negative anti-TPO and TSI, negative ANA, anti-DNA and ANCAs, as well as other autoimmunity.
Normal supplementation.
Serology was negative for HAV, HBV, HCV and HIV.
CEA 5.9.
24h urine: volume 2400, proteins: 3538 mg, Na 109, K 52 and Calcium 72.
Chest radiography: volume loss in left hemithorax that has increased compared to previous radiography.
Abdominal ultrasound: left pleural effusion.
Simple left lobe liver removal.
Slightly decreased kidneys with small previously known parapyellic cysts.
Fluid in moderate amounts perihepatic, perisplenic and pelvic.
Cholestasis: gross calcifications in thyroid gland
Mild pericardial effusion was diagnosed.
bilateral left-sided predominance.
Decreased size of the left pulmonary artery
Volume loss in left hemithorax without central obstructive cause.
Multiple varicoid and cystic bronchiectasis, predominantly in the left lower lobe.
Lesion suggestive of cyst in the left liver lobe.
Perihepatic and perisplenic fluid.
Kidneys with increased attenuation
▁Right lateral tracheal wall.
Echocardiogram: severe left ventricular hypertrophy, with systolic dysfunction in limits and diastolic dysfunction.
Mild pericardial effusion surrounding the left atrium was observed.
Differential diagnosis This is a nephrotic syndrome with impaired renal function (without previous nephropathy), in the context of contrast radiological study.
With all these data the following diagnostic options are assessed at admission: glomerular disease: · minimal changes or lipoid nephrosis: it is usually more common in children between 2 and 10 years.
So it's unlikely.
· Focal and segmental glomerulonephrosis: more frequent in adolescents.
· Nephropathy medulla or glomerulonephritis memnoproliferative: <1% of cases.
In this group is the most compatible with our case.
Systemic disease: SLE, viral infections (HIV, hepatitis B and C), bacterial infections (shock arthritis, etc.), vasculitis, multiple myeloma, amyloidosis, etc.
These entities are the most compatible with the clinical picture, but they have already been ruled out with blood tests except for multiple myeloma and amyloidosis.
Therefore, further complementary tests should be continued to confirm or rule out these last two processes complementary tests renal biopsy: acellular nodular glomeruli with an impression of amyloidosis.
It is observed that the zone of brown-stained amyloid AA amyloid deposits with▁immunohistochemical technique coincides with the light chain deposit Kappa.
In principle, it seems somewhat contradictory, since both types of amyloid cannot be stained at the same time.
The test was repeated, obtaining the same results.
Bone marrow biopsy: Myelogram: marrow of good lumps, cellularity, high fat in some of the lumps.
Presence of all populations in their various forms of maturation with plasma in 7% of the total cell, of mature morphology and without the presence of intermediate▁lymphoid elements.
J.C.: hematopoietic marrow.
Cit depot: 3% of abnormal phenotype plasma cells, typical of myelomatous plasma cells, together with 0.2% of normal phenotype plasma cells.
Final diagnosis Primary amyloidosis with possible coexistence of AA amyloid (cardiac, renal, digestive and neuropathic).
Erythema multiforme is usually diagnosed by ultrasound-guided renal biopsy, which shows AA amyloid deposit and positive IF to Kappa chains.
Laboratory tests showed nephrotic proteinuria, presence of c. light kappa in urine.
In blood, there was no monoclonal peak, but the presence of light chains kappa and altered quotient.
Global hypogammaglobulinemia with normal complements.
Pattern of stasis marked by severe stenosis of GGT and LDH.
With these data, we consulted the Hematology service, which performs a flow cytometry, in which 3% of plasma cells with an▁anomalous phenotype kappa are reported.
Finally, we conclude that this is a primary amyloidosis with possible coexistence of AA amyloid.
Treatment with cyclophosphamide and▁steroids was initiated according to the indications of the Hematology service, and follow-up visits in the Hematology and Nephrology outpatient clinic.
