A 58-year-old woman without known drug allergies, born in Morocco, who has been living in Spain for 3 years and has not traveled to her country since then.
No other epidemiology of interest or medical-surgical history to highlight.
She came to the emergency room with a five-day history of fever, non-thermometrated fever and sweating, accompanied by abdominal pain in the right epigastrium and hypochondrium, continuous and unmodifiable with intake.
He did not report vomiting, diarrhea or other accompanying symptoms in the anamnesis by organs and devices.
Physical examination revealed blood pressure of 125/70 mmHg, temperature 38.2oC, heart rate of 96 systoles/min, and the patient was eupneic at rest.
Rest of strictly normal findings, except blando and depressible abdomen but with mild peritoneal pain absence of superficial and deep irritation signs of epigastrium and right hypochondrium Muphyse, with sensitive hepatomegaly of three
Basic laboratory tests performed in the emergency department revealed hemoglobin 11 g/dL with normal MCV and MCH, white blood cells 700 cel/mm3 (neutrrubine and sedimentary urine), C-reactive protein 276 mg/L 106 FA total liver profile
Chest and abdominal X-ray showed no pathological findings.
Given the clinical-analytical findings, it was decided to request abdominal ultrasound in the emergency department with a focus on a lesion of 89 x 58 mm morphology in the left hepatic lobe, with poorly defined margins and with heterogeneous content of speech.
The radiologist of the daycare center decided to extend the study by performing abdominal CT with contrast, to better filiate the lesion, being diagnosed with probable liver abscess and admission of the patient for further care, antibiotic therapy and drainage.
Days after admission, a test was performed that provided us with the cause of the abscess.
Differential diagnosis The finding of a liver abscess raises the differential diagnosis with different etiologies, each with certain particularities: 1.
First, we must consider the possible ways in which the microbial inoculum has reached the parenchyma, which generates an initial response that becomes inadequate for the control of the formation of the hepatic abscess, a.
This inoculum can reach the liver through the hepatic artery (bacteremias at a distance from another source), through the portal vein (for instance diagnosed in the territory) as an endoscopic manipulation of the biliary tract, as a diverticulum).
The extension by contiguity from▁neighboring structures such as the stomach, duodenum or colon in its ascending-transverse portion is also a possibility that, although less frequent, should be considered.
2.
Microbiological isolation is highly variable and can guide us to one or another ethiopathogeny.
The majority of abscesses are polymicron, and the representation of anaerobes is assumed to be underestimated due to the difficulty for cultivation and characterization in the laboratory.
In our case, the presence of gas in the abscess made us comment with the interventional radiologist that the sample obtained from the puncture was▁inoculated directly from the syringe of the hepatic puncture, in addition to the presence of a standard culture bottle in our case.
Monomicroscopic bacterial liver abscesses are often caused by enterobacteria such as Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae and are usually related to the biliary tract.
Isolation of gram-positive bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus spp.
(particularly those in the milleri group) often result from bacteremia from another source, and can be accompanied by foci of infection at other levels and mucocutaneous stigmata that force us to rule out infective endocarditis.
We ruled out the existence of an abscess without hemocultives, which was positive in the culture of the abscess with a polymicrobial flora with a significant presence of Gram-negative organism and nosdiacens, a germ related to endocarditis, which could have made us think
It will also make us suspect the presence of a malignant dissemination when we look at multiple small abscesses in a solitary abscess, such as the one that presented the patient as a priority, so that our unlikely cause was due to cancer.
Another possibility could be a liver abscess caused by Entamoeba histolytica, which is often preceded by diarrhea with pathological products, abdominal pain and fever (dysentery).
In addition, the epidemiological history of travel to endemic areas (usually developing) in the previous six months should raise suspicion of this etiology.
This abscess usually appears in a single form in 70-80% of cases, with the most frequent location being the posterior area of the right hepatic lobe by the distribution of the portal circulation.
Our patient, although coming from a developing country, had not visited him for three years and did not refer clinical diarrhea. However, this does not exclude positivity to fecal cultures which were considered necessary years later, given the need for culture.
Although empirically treated with ceftriaxone and metronidazole instead of piperacillin/metronidase alone may be susceptible initially to metronidazole (another possibility of empirical treatment for liver abscess is usually suspected hyacinosis).
Other aetiologies that should be considered in our setting when facing a liver abscess based on epidemiology are miliary tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis cyst, often in the form of a multi-site cough), but microbiological tests should also be considered in abscesses
Pathological gynecology is rare and usually occurs in cases of polymicroorganism abscesses in patients who may be found as a companion or, more rarely, in immunosuppressed patients.
Finally, we must also take into account the possibility that we are facing pathology, not complementary tests in our case the presence of a clinical picture (5 days) accompanied by fever and without data on thoracic pathology, nor did we consider the abdominal syndrome as more likely.
Antibiotic treatment was initiated with ceftriaxone 2 g every 24 hours and metronidazole 500 mg every 6 hours, both administered intravenously.
On the third day of admission the hepatic lesion was punctured without incidents, with aspiration of content and insertion of pigtail catheter for drainage, obtaining purulent fluid from which samples were sent to microbiology Gram-negative bacilli.
On day +12 of antibiotic treatment and due to the low output by the hepatic drainage catheter, a new ultrasound control was performed to assess its removal or repositioning.
This control showed a reduction in the size of the abscess (46 x 29 mm) and the radiologist called attention to the presence of a strange density nucleus and axial re-entry of both the extended morphology TC, which was already reviewed in this case
Surgery was performed and the patient refused direct puncture for stabbing objects in the past. Then, the possible accidental ingestion of foreign body was evaluated, but he did not remember having taken any spina bifida.
A strange abscess was observed in the columella at all times, with fever defervescence 24 hours after antibiotic treatment was initiated; the defective hemocultives were negative and the surgical intervention was performed on day +26
The patient had an uneventful postoperative period and on day +35 a new ultrasound was performed to assess the resolution of the abscess where no collection was evident.
A total of 42 days of antibiotic therapy was completed from the beginning, the last week being at home (ciprofloxacin 750 mg/12 h. and metronidazole 500 mg/8 h orally).
The follow-up visits at one month and three months were favorable from the clinical, analytical and imaging (ultrasound) point of view, without recurrence of the process.
Final diagnosis Polymicrobial hepatic abscess secondary to fish bone
