A 53-year-old male was admitted for sepsis without a clear focus.
The patient had a personal history of chronic calcaneal osteomyelitis secondary to an ulcer of 8 years of evolution by neuropathy of the left sciatic nerve at the level of the middle third of the thigh by a bullet wound in 1993.
Following traumatology during these years the patient has presented multiple admissions for worsening of heel ulcer as well as multiple microbiological isolates of multiresistant microorganisms requiring intravenous antibiotic therapy and multiple surgical debridement.
During a trip to Brazil, the patient was admitted due to an acute coronary syndrome with the placement of a conventional stent in the anterior descending artery and during this admission he presented septic shock of probable respiratory origin, requiring orotracheal intubation in the intensive care unit.
After several months of hospital admission, the patient returned to Spain, where he was admitted due to sepsis compatible symptoms without a clear focus.
▁Complementary examinations showed pulmonary condensation on the right base and physical examination revealed roncus ̄s, edema and erythema in the forefoot area with a known ulcer that was closing for a second intention.
Fluid therapy and empirical antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone and levofloxacin were initiated with improvement in the numbers of AT and diuresis.
During her admission, an ankle MRI was requested, which showed the presence of abscesses and bone infarctions with great progression of inflammatory activity in relation to a previous exploration of November 2015 and isolated Staphylococcus aureus resistant in a culture of Staphylococcus aureus.
A few days after admission, the patient complains of back-lumbar pain that prevents her from rest and new feverish peaks. Physical examination revealed pain in percussion in the dorsal apophysis D.11 spinal height.
Treatment with vancomycin and rifampicin was initiated.
Because of this, CT and MRI of the spine were requested, showing spondylodyscitis D10-11 subacute evolution, possibly secondary to the presence of new▁thorax dissemination and the unsuccessful focus of osteomyelitis dorsal trauma due to correct anti-antibiotic treatment
