A 63-year-old patient with a history of nonvalvular permanent atrial fibrillation, benign prostatic hypertrophy, and high-grade intra-urothelial bladder neoplasia.
She had no known drug allergies or habits and was under regular treatment with atenolol 50mg/24h, digoxinmg/24h, AAS 300mg/24hCG, periodic acid-fast bacilli/24h and inèacilli toxics
The patient was admitted to the emergency department with a fever of 39°C of six hours without evident focus.
Urinary tract infection was diagnosed and outpatient treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 2 grams every 12 hours was indicated.
After two weeks of treatment she consulted again due to persistent fever with pollakiuria and choluria, so it was decided to hospitalize the Urology Department with the diagnosis of urinary tract infection.
▁Complementary tests at admission showed an increase in CRP of 89 mg/L, slightly elevated fibrinogen (6.5 g/L) and hematuria, with the rest of the parameters of blood count, renal function, electrolytes and coagulation within the normal range.
A chest X-ray performed 48 hours before admission was reported as normal.
Persistence of fever and worsening of the general condition, consultation to the infectious diseases unit was performed.
The patient was seriously impressed, with a fever of 38.3o C, blood pressure of 94/54 mmHg, heart rate of 102 beats per minute, normal cardiorespiratory auscultation, non-painful lower abdominal pain evidence of lower limb edema.
Respiratory symptoms were present.
Analytical tests were requested, highlighting the presence of gamma-glutaminase (GGT) greater than 400 U/l and 97 mg alkaline phosphatase/200 U/SG hr, sedimentation rate g.
A new chest X-ray revealed a diffuse micronodular pattern.
Differential diagnosis of fever, micronodular diffuse pulmonary pattern, atypical stasis, includes neoplasic, autoimmune and infectious processes.
Primary pulmonary lymphoma is rare and accounts for less than 0.5% of all lung tumors.
It can present as multiple pulmonary nodules and be associated with prolonged fever and stasis if there is concomitant liver involvement.
Broncholoalveolar carcinoma represents around 5% of bronchogenic carcinomas.
It is poorly related to smoking and may present as an isolated pulmonary mass or as multiple pulmonary nodules.
Lymphomatoid granulomatosis is a rare entity consisting of granulomatous pulmonary vasculitis manifested as multiple pulmonary nodules and involvement of other organs (skin, kidney, nervous system, liver).
It is a▁lymphoproliferative process related to infection by Epstein's virus and large B-cell lymphoma.
Although all these tumor processes cannot be ruled out in our case, the presence of synchronous▁neoplasms, although possible, is exceptional, so we should think of a metastatic lung disease.
However, this is a non-contrast enhanced urothelial tumour in which metastatic involvement, although possible, is exceptional.
As for connective tissue diseases, both Wegener's disease and sarcoidosis could explain much of the clinical findings of our case.
Wegener's disease can present as multiple pulmonary nodules and systemic symptoms (fever, affectation of general status); however, the presence of upper respiratory tract involvement and renal involvement with proteinuria and microhematuria is common.
Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous disease in which pulmonary involvement is very common, as well as fever and urticarial colitis due to the presence of hepatic granulomas.
However, in the chest X-ray, the most frequent finding is the presence of hiliar lymphadenopathies associated or not with an interstitial pattern.
Inhalational diseases, such as silicosis or other pneumoconiosis, can be ruled out in our case due to the lack of epidemiological history and normal previous chest X-ray.
Among the infectious processes, severe histoplasmosis and▁coccidioidomycosis, although with compatible clinical pictures, can be ruled out due to the absence of a history of travel to endemic areas and/or immunosuppression data.
Similarly, invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is highly unlikely to occur, as it most often affects immunocompromised individuals or those with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in the early stages.
Pulmonary nocardiosis is a rare entity that is also prevalent in immunocompromised patients with long-term treatment with corticosteroids or COPD.
Another infectious process to consider would be the presence of septic pulmonary emboli originating in endocarditis, although nodules are usually larger.
It would be convenient to perform hemocultives and an echocardiogram.
The probability of a viral pneumonia should be considered, however, the most frequent is that produced by the varicella/zoster virus, being very unlikely without the presence of characteristic skin lesions.
Finally, the most probable diagnosis is the presence of miliary tuberculosis (TBC), both by clinical picture and radiological imaging.
Required by the patient, we know that the onset of symptoms had occurred with the administration of the 6 dose of intravesical BCG.
The study was initiated, requesting new analytical control, hemocultives, urine culture and CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis.
Regarding the complete blood count, the findings were within normal limits.
Chemotherapy remains 6.5 g/l, normal coagulation.
Hepatic enzymes varied GOT 49-96 U/l, GPT45-72 U/l, GGT 401-640 U/l, FA 200-225 U/l, remaining proteins normal 6.2-7.4 g/dl.
The values of other acute phase reactants such as CRP and SGA were around 89-65 mg/l and 97-54 mm/h, respectively.
Serology of hepatitis, HIV and autoimmunity were negative.
Microhematuria persisted in the urine and urine culture was negative.
Due to the presence of an interstitial pattern with predominance of micronodular, diffuse and bilateral chest X-ray, and the history of endovesical instillation of BCG, serial mycobacterial cultures were requested.
Sputum smears could not be performed due to lack of expectoration.
Blood cultures were negative.
The CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed bilateral parahilar adenopathies, diffuse bilateral micronodular interstitial pattern predominantly in bases compatible with miliary TBC, small homogeneous hiatal hemangioma L4.
Treatment was initiated with isoniazid, rifampicin and etambucil as well as with corticosteroids, showing clinical improvement with disappearance of fever and voiding syndrome, so the patient was discharged.
In subsequent revisions, the patient was asymptomatic and analytically normalized transaminases.
Treatment was completed and serial post-treatment mycobacterial investigation was performed, which were negative.
Final diagnosis Miliary tuberculosis secondary to intravesical instillations of BCG (BCGitis)
