A 43-year-old man with no known drug allergies, ex-smoker since 30 years of age, 15 pack-years, and with a personal history of mild mixed dyslipidemia and probable gastritis for Helicobacter pylori.
Independent for all basic activities of daily living.
Chronic treatment with esomeprazole 20 mg and fenofibrate.
She was seen in the emergency room for pain in the right hypochondrium radiating to the epigastrium for 5 months, with worsening in the last days, accompanied by dysphagia to solids, loss of 5 kilograms of weight in the last two months, asthenia and loss of appetite.
No diarrhoea, vomiting, fever, pruritus, or sweating.
The physical examination revealed temperature of 37.5oC, mucocutaneous dryness, pain in the right upper quadrant, and epigastric pain and non-painful palpation of 2 pins and needles.
The patient had left axillary lymphadenopathy and bilateral inguinal painless, 1 centimeter diameter rounds.
Blood tests showed: leukocytes 15800/uL (neutrophils 8000/uL, lymphocytes 5300/uL), hemoglobin 6.8 mg/dL and platelets 46000/uL.
In the peripheral blood smear, dysplastic▁erythroblasts, myelocytes and metamyelocytes are compatible with leukocytes, leukocytes or all accompanyingcryocytic syndrome (seebloc), and 1-2% of myelocystic syndrome.
The peripheral blood flow cytometry showed leukoerythroblastic picture with outflow of immature myeloid elements into peripheral blood.
A CT scan of the chest and abdomen showed thickening of a segment of the duodenum, moderate parietal spasmomegaly and marked generalized blastic bone involvement (to assess possible pathology or metastatic involvement).
In gastroscopy, stenosed and friable cardia.
Bone marrow biopsy showed an increase in bone trabeculation, as well as stromal fibrosis with a marked and profound decrease in cell population affecting the three series.
Adjunctive epithelial proliferation expressed in small epithelial groups slightly cohesive showing epithelial elements with a "seal ring" pattern (see picture).
The▁immunohistochemical study revealed positivity for cytokeratin AE1/AE3, E-cadherin and very focally for cytokeratin 7.
▁Definitive diagnosis was adenocarcinoma of the stomach with bone marrow and bone marrow.
The patient was admitted to the emergency medical service for treatment and follow-up.
