We report the case of a 41-year-old male without allergies to known drugs.
His personal history included hypertension and extrinsic asthma.
She had been treated with enalapril/hydrochlorothiazide for 3 years.
The patient came to the emergency department of our center in Octubre 2014 for presenting pain at the right iliac fossa for 4 days.
Pain is moderate in intensity and partially improves with usual analgesia.
It does not attenuate/exacerbate with food intake and/or postural movements or is accompanied by other gastrointestinal symptoms (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and/or constipation, asthenia, etc.).
Physical examination revealed good general health, hemodynamically stable, afflicted and eupneic, breathing room air.
No signs of tuberculous lesions or cutaneous-mucosal lesions were observed.
The neurological and cardiopulmonary examination is anodyne.
At the abdominal level, a non-painful mass in the right flank of hard consistency adhered to deep planes is observed.
▁Complementary tests revealed a leukocytosis of 11930/μL with 1500/μL and CRP of▁37.41 mg/l, as the only remarkable values.
Abdominal CT reported a thickening of the ascending colon that produced stenosis of the lumen, probably of neoplasic origin, with no evidence of pelvic or retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy.
A Pathologic Pathologic Pathologic Pathologic Pathologic Pathologic Pathologic Pathologic Pathologic Studies were completed and an ulcerated bleeding lesion to the colon was observed.
Biopsies were taken with the aim of finding nonspecific inflammatory changes without histological signs of malignancy.
Differential diagnosis We present a young patient with a recent abdominal mass.
She has no relevant family history or predictors of colonic disease.
On the other hand, the current clinical picture is subacute and no clinical data suggestive of malignancy such as loss or alteration of bowel habits are associated.
However, it seems reasonable to establish suspicion of colon neoplasia as the first diagnostic possibility.
Another pathology to consider could be inflammatory bowel disease.
From the point of view of infectious diseases, we should not forget intestinal ichthyosis as a cause of abdominal mass.
On the other hand, in the case of our patient, the presence of peripheral blood▁parasites, which although could be attributed to the history of extrinsic asthma, forces us to rule out a parasitosis.
Finally, although less likely, the possibility of intestinal tuberculosis could also be considered.
Surgical intervention was decided upon when a neoformative process was suspected.
▁Right hemicolectomy was performed without incidents.
The anatomopathological diagnosis was granulomatous inflammatory process, focal, necrotizing,▁palisade, severe, compatible with invasive colonic anisakiasis.
The patient was referred to outpatient infectious diseases.
Making a directed anamnesis, he reported consuming little cooked fish almost daily.
IgE serology was requested against Anisakis, which was positive (3.59 kUA/l) and treatment with albendazole 400 mg/12h for 21 days was initiated.
In the review performed after treatment completion, the patient was asymptomatic and without seizures.
Final diagnosis
