Anamnesis A 66-year-old patient, with no relevant personal history, was seen in the emergency department due to a frontal, oppressive headache and sudden onset, not accompanied by neurological focus or nausea or vomiting.
No fever or systemic symptoms were reported.
Physical examination upon arrival to the emergency department, the patient showed good level of consciousness, was coherent in relation to the environment,▁obeyed orders and spontaneous language was normal.
The rest of the neurological examination showed no focality.
During her stay in the emergency room the patient suffers sudden deterioration of the level of consciousness, with fluctuations in it.
At that time, the neurological examination showed a tendency to sleep with left bipsychiatric and normal cranial nerves including the eye fundus, with left hemiparesis predominantly in the brachial hemiparesis with ex-musculomuscular reflexes
There were no spontaneous limb movements.
▁Complementary tests • General analysis without findings.
Urine study was unremarkable.
• Chest X-ray: no findings.
• Cranial computed tomography (CT): intraparenchymal hematoma in the posterior region of the right parietal lobe, 54 x 27 x 50 mm, in its anteroposterior, transverse and peripheral axis edema, respectively.
In the posterior region of the left parietal lobe, another intraparenchymal hematoma of about 30 x 24 x 27 mm is observed.
Adjacent to the cerebral hoz in its left side there is another hematoma of 36 x 16 x 20 mm.
Suture bleaching in a generalized way and lack of differentiation between white matter/grays, related to diffuse cerebral edema.
Subdural hematoma in the midline, left tentorious.
• Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): superficial lobar hematomas extending to the white and/or subarachnoid substance, multiple in both parietal lobes, parasagittal hemispheric circumferential region of the brain.
Intraventricular hemorrhage in both lateral ventricles and subarachnoid hemorrhage.
• HIV serology, hepatotropic virus: negative.
Neurotropic serology: negative.
Rheumatoid factor: negative.
C3 and C4 were normal.
Autoimmunity study: negative.
Cerebrospinal fluid: normal cytobiochemistry.
Intrathecal immunoglobulin G non-synthesis. Serum and cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal bands: negative.
Cerebrospinal fluid culture: negative.
• Encephalon arteriography: irregularity and dissection of a short segment of C1 of the right internal carotid artery, and stenosis of the C1 segment of the left internal carotid artery, with normal renal arteries.
Generalized narrowing of the intracranial vessels in which areas of mild reduction in caliber alternate, which may be related to cerebral vasculitis.
• Meningeal biopsy: no abnormalities.
• Brain parenchyma biopsy: sections of various fragments of brain tissue with marked involvement of small blood vessels alternating with destruction of brownish neutrophils, perivascular and intravascular thromboembolism, dementia.
Lymphocyte and histiocytic elements are observed in both frequent gliosis and cerebral parenchyma, alternating in the latter with small hemorrhagic degeneration with a reactive and vacuolar focus.
No pathogens or granulomatous formations were observed.
Compatible with vasculitis
Diagnosis As a syndromic diagnosis, the patient had an encephalopathic picture with a right hemisphere syndrome, produced by multiple intracranial hemorrhages secondary to a primary vasculitis of the central nervous system.
Treatment Treatment Treatment Treatment was initiated with methylprednisolone boluses at a dose of 1 g daily for 3 days and then 0.5 g for 2 additional days, with the intention that if there was no improvement the addition of cyclophosphamide.
The cerebral lobe and the cerebral lobe despite the established treatment, the patient presented torpid evolution, showing progressive intracranial hypertension, and in the control CT new hemorrhagic foci in the occipital edema and increase were evidenced.
Intracranial hypertension was refractory to treatment, definitely conditioning the patient's death.
