Anamnesis We present a 12-year-old boy with no known drug allergies or medical and surgical history of interest who was admitted to pediatrics due to respiratory symptoms consisting of fever of up to 38 oC, cough.
Due to this episode, the patient had received antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin, paracetamol and ibuprofen alternately as antipyretic therapy.
Approximately seven days after the onset of the respiratory symptoms, the patient began to present an extensive dermatosis in the form of inflammatory lesions in the form of erythematous plaques, nummular, blister-centered.
Physical examination revealed dian-shaped lesions affecting the face, trunk and limbs, as well as oral, ocular and genital mucosae, where there were extensive erosions and hemorrhagic crusts.
He had no palmoplantar involvement.
Eros and hemorrhagic crusts in the oral mucosa.
Target-shaped lesions: plaques centered on erosions secondary to blister rupture.
▁Complementary tests Blood count showed leukocytosis with left shift and biochemistry showed an increase in acute phase reactants.
Blood cultures were negative.
The serology against Mycoplasma pneumoniae (MP) was positive at a titer of 1/1280, so that this microorganism was considered as the agent responsible for the respiratory condition of the patient.
Diagnosis Stevens-Johnson syndrome secondary to Mycoplasma pneumoniae.
Treatment The patient was treated with selective antimicrobial agents against the agent responsible.
Treatment with fluconazole and intravenous ablative therapy was initiated.
In addition, a regimen of topical cure for lesions with argentic chondrodiacin and fusidic acid was established three times a day, paying special attention to the genital region to avoid retraction.
Metamizole and chloride rescue were used to control pain.
The evolution of the lesions was very satisfactory.
After admission, she did not develop new lesions and those present at the time of diagnosis showed rapid reepithelialization.
Currently, residual hypopigmented areas have recovered normal tone and the patient has no scar or secondary adherence.
