This is a 25-year-old woman, born and living in Barcelona, who enters the Dual Pathology Unit derived by her reference psychiatrist (CAS), for psychopathology stabilization cannabis and alcohol consumption.
ABOUT CONSULTATION SOAS: Non-AMC.
Le burns caused by burns in the internal area of both upper and lower extremities (cleaning water).
A 21-year-old spontaneous abortion (ectopic pregnancy) Psychiatric history: Primer contact with mental health at 18 years of age due to anxious symptoms in relation to difficulties in performing household chores.
Diagnosis of OCD and major depressive disorder three years ago, from the death of his brother.
Paroxetine 60 mg/day, pregabalin 300 mg/day and▁benzodiazepines.
He stopped treatment for improvement.
An admission in November 2009 for suicidal thoughts and obsessive thoughts (about two months).
ANESTHETIC AGENTS PERFORMED AS TOBACCO: At 11 years old.
Current consumption 12 cigarettes/day.
Cannabis: Start at 12 years of age, abuse pattern, without interruption and progressive until the current consumption of 20 "sows"/day.
Alcohol: from 14 years old, high-grade drinks.
Weekends (large▁drunkenness) Irregular consumption pattern with periods of higher/lower consumption.
Maximum abstinence interval 2 months last summer.
Since then, daily consumption of 1 liter of wine/day has been reported.
Cocaine: 18 years old, by endonasal route.
Withdrawal period of 1 year from the death of your brother
Relapse in consumption for a year and a half, with abstinence of 6 months before the current admission.
LSD: punctual, at 18 years.
GHB (liquid ecstasy): at 18 years, weekend consumption, remission 5 years ago.
TOXICOLOGICAL HISTORY Polytoxic brother (heroin and cocaine parenterally, BZD, alcohol), died at the age of 27 due to cardiorespiratory arrest.
Probable comorbidity disorder.
Tio paterno with a history of cocaine use, and heroin parenterally, currently in remission.
You have alcohol dependence disorder
Bipolar disorder in a paternal aunt
ANTECE and depression of all silanometry,▁coinciding with the abandonment of the pharmacological treatment that had started a year and a half before, shows an increase in compulsive behaviors of structured proof (gas, cleaning), and need for suicide.
His psychiatrist at CAS leads her to stop cannabis and alcohol consumption and psychopathological stabilization.
Current NURSING is the fifth of six brothers, all male.
yChild: Normal psychomotor development, at school was "intranquil".
Conflicting family environment (alcoholic father).
Tendency to rumination.
Low academic performance.
Low education level.
Sociability.
Adolescence: On two occasions he has lived outside the original family nucleus.
Cocaine consumption begins with the first couple at 18 years of age.
Deprive contact with mental health.
She met her current boyfriend five years ago.
He performs sporadic low-qualification work.
She currently lives with her mother, a brother and her partner.
His brother died in 2007, at home (addictment to heroin and cocaine, dog.
Possibly comorbid disorder.
PSICOBIOGRAPHY A mental illness: cutaneous manifestations in upper extremities.
No other remarkable findings.
Psychopathological features: Self and allopathic oriented.
Physical aspects are preserved.
Spontaneous, coherent discourse.
It is subjectively and objectively understood.
Ruminative thought about your brother's death.
Checking rituals (gas, under the bed) and cleaning and symmetry.
No delusional ideation of any kind.
Denies thoughts of death or suicidal ideation at the time of admission.
Reactive mood, mixed mood, with oscillations ranging from sadness and▁crying to irritation, described as "depression".
Floating anxiety.
Imperativeness.
Sleep and appetite are preserved.
There were no changes in psychomotor skills or sense perception.
General Analytical PSYCOOPATOLOGICAL EXPLORATION: No biochemical or hydroelectrolytic alterations to be highlighted.
Negative serology.
Mild Clinical Multiaxial Inventory-II: High score in phobic/avoidative, dependent, compulsivity/rigidity traits.
SCID-II : High score for obsessive and dependent features.
"Free limits."
OCI-R : High scores for accumulation behaviors, need for order, verification.
E. COMPLEMENTARIS Diagnostic orientation: Cannabis dependence disorder.
Alcohol dependence disorder
Obsessive compulsion disorder?
Treatment: Clomipramine 75mg/day (in ascending dose) Supplements of vitamins of complex B Clonazepam 1.5mg/day Quetiapine 100mg/day DIAGNOSTIC AND TRATAMIENT attitudes.
Unhealthy condition "looks for other patients".
She has psychophysical anxiety paroxysms (feelings of ahogo, episodes of psychosis), which sometimes remit with verbal delusions.
Over time, it mobilizes the other patients (they go to nursing to say that "they are▁crying in the backyard").
Affective ambivalence, incontinence.
Changes in treatment with valproate but clomipramine is maintained.
Quetiapine.
Begins conducts of excessive familiarity and sexual approaches with another patient.
Persistent child behavior, mofas, unmotivated laugh.
Ask you to leave bed because you have a fever.
Manic episode:▁frank manic picture with pseudomanierisms and unconnected speech, extraneous behaviors, rigging, facial tics, muscle▁rigidity.
Mechanical and pharmacological treatment with olanzapine IM
Intersecting treatment with clomipramine.
STRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT OF clomipramine and valproate dosage adjustment up to 1,200mg/day.
Expanded progressive insomnia until now.
Feeling irritable and aggressive verbally with peers
Episodes that had occurred earlier, always with a previous feeling of fever
Progressive improvement until reaching euthymia?
Borderline Personality Disorder Borderline Personality disorder Contraindications
