A 76-year-old male with a history of type II diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and chronic renal failure.
The patient came to the emergency room of our center due to general▁malaise, nausea, vomiting and episodes of profuse sweating without chest pain.
Five days before, she had been discharged from the hospital after placing two stents for ischemic heart disease.
She was admitted with leukocytosis with left shift, acute renal failure, normocytic normochromic anemia and a CRP of 112mg/L.
The electrocardiogram showed complete right bundle branch block of Hiss and second-degree atrioventricular block.
The first days of admission to the ICU are afflicted with ascending leukocytosis with no clear focus, and manifesting some episode of temporospatial disorientation with psychomotor agitation.
Treatment was initiated with piperacillin/tazodone and a cranial CAT scan was performed, which showed a small occipital subarachnoid hemorrhage.
On the sixth day of admission, the patient presented with fever greater than 38oC, tachypnea and increased respiratory work with severe metabolic acidosis, accompanied by deterioration of consciousness.
A chest CT showed bilateral pleural effusion.
Urine, bronchial aspirate and blood samples for culture were collected.
The next day, from the microbiology laboratory, they report that in two hemoactives gram-positive▁cocci grow in clusters, which are later identified as Staphylococcus lugdunensis non-beta-cullase producer.
After this result, antibiotic treatment was adjusted according to the antibiogram to cloxacillin and gentamicin.
A transesophageal echocardiogram was performed in which two vegetations were observed in the auricular side of the mitral valve, one in the septal leaflet of 12 x 12 mm and another in the posterior leaflet of 13 x 12 mm, conditioning mitral insufficiency.
Surgery is proposed for valve replacement but the patient dies before surgery can be performed.
The patient was diagnosed with mitral endocarditis on the native valve.
