Anamnesis A 72-year-old woman came to the▁dermatology clinic for a lesion of six days of evolution in the left elbow, associated with febricula in days prior to consultation, otherwise without other symptoms.
The patient had a history of trauma in the area with a plant two weeks before, although this history did not commune him several days after the first contact with our service.
The patient had no family history of interest and suffered from type II diabetes mellitus in treatment with oral antidiabetics, hypothyroidism in treatment with levothyroxine and breast cancer in remission since 2009.
She did not highlight toxic habits, recent changes in her usual medication or contact with the field and/or animals.
Physical examination revealed a plaque of approximately 2x2.5 cm erythematous and erythematous plaque, circular, with pseudovesicidal and pustular surface, which subsequently ulcerated halopurus, showing a hemorrhagic▁exudate
In addition, he had mobile lymphadenopathies of approximately 1 cm in size and painful at axillary and medial level to the antecubital fossa.
▁Complementary tests: 1.
Iconography.
▁Photograph of the primary cutaneous lesion and lymphadenopathies in transit after signing the informed consent by the patient.
2.
Biopsy.
After signing the informed consent and local anesthesia with 2% mepivacaine, samples were taken with a 4 mm punch from the periphery of the lesion and the center.
These samples were sent to pathology and microbiology respectively.
Pathological anatomy: the biopsy showed an unaltered epidermis and hypodermis showed a histiocytic infiltrate (confirmed by CD68 staining), microabscesses and necrosis.
The presence of fungal infection was not evident in the staining with ¶.
Microbiology: it was cultivated in Agar Sabouraud dextrosa, among others, and colonies were obtained such as Non-factumd Brazil that showed a smell of humland.
An antibiogram showed sensitivity to: trimethoprimmethoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-sulfamethoxazole, linezolid, cefoxime, and amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, and thyme, ciprofloxacin.
Culture and Gram.
Samples were obtained with a swab for culture and Gram stain.
In the culture and gram of▁exudate showed flora of external contamination.
3.
Analytical • Blood count: hemoglobin: 10.6 g/dl, leukocytes: 5550 with normal formula, platelets 291000,▁SVG: 26 mm/hour.
• Hepatic biochemistry: hepatic and renal normal with C-reactive protein levels of 28.5 mg/L.
• Proteinogram: Trace compatible with moderate inflammatory syndrome and moderate hypogammaglobulinemia • Normal coagulation.
4.
Serology for cryptias and borrelia were negative.
Diagnosis Nodular lymphangitis due to meningitis.
Treatment Initially, a clinical judgment of possible arthropod bite was established, so an empirical treatment was performed with local cefoxime 1metag/8 h IV, metronidazole 500 mg/8 h IV and ciprofloxacin fusacid cure 250 mg/12 h.
After microbiological diagnosis, the treatment of choice was established with trimethoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-sulfamethoxazole 169mg/800mg every 12 hours for three months.
The evolution of our patient was favorable, healing the primary lesion completely three weeks after the start of the treatment of choice and disappearing the lymphadenopathies in transit at one month.
The presence of cites throughout the treatment was not evidenced and the patient is currently asymptomatic.
