Anamnesis A 21-day-old neonate was referred to our pediatrician's consultation due to disseminated annular lesions of 4 days duration.
The child was brought by her mother, a friend of Senegal, who told us that the lesions had begun in the forehead, and had spread to the scalp, and then to the trunk.
The child was born in Spain by cesarean section due to pelvic-cefaction disproportion.
As a complication, the mother presented with fever during delivery, so she was treated with ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin.
Maternity site infection occurred in similar lesions in cohabitants or in contact with animals.
Physical examination revealed multiple annular plaques, measuring between one and five centimeters in maximum diameter, all with a well-defined erythematous-desquamative, raised edge, with central clearance.
In total, he had ten lesions throughout his body surface.
No injuries were observed in the physical examination of the cohabitants.
Accompanying dermatophytosis The clinical presentation of annular lesions in the neonatal period raises a broad differential diagnosis including neonatal lupus, seborrheic dermatitis, erythema multiforme, histiocytosis, congenital syphilis and dermatophytosis.
However, despite the unusual presentation at this age of life, due to the typical morphology of the lesions, and the accessible test with potassium hydroxide, we ruled out dermatof infection first.
Thus, direct observation showed the presence of numerous septate hyphae.
Diagnosis 2 weeks after sowing the presence of Microsporum canis was confirmed in culture, confirming the diagnosis of tinea capitis and corporis by this dermatophyte.
Treatment and evolution As for treatment, we opted for topical antifungal therapy, with partial improvement, but in the presence of the lesions, we decided to administer itraconazole orally (due to complete resolution of the case of slippage 4 weeks).
We also referred the patient to pediatric consultations, where neutropenia (between 400 and 700 neutrophils/ųl) was detected and maintained over time with the presence of antineutrophil antibodies IgG and other immunoglobulins normal immunoglobulin G study.
This confirmed the diagnosis of autoimmune neonatal neutropenia.
The patient is currently being followed up by the Department of Hematology and Infantile without presenting any serious infection.
