A 62-year-old male patient, previously healthy farmer, resident in the province of del Estero, was admitted to the day care center with mild trauma and a fracture with Santiago right as a consequence of a road accident (moto).
Laboratory and imaging diagnostic studies were requested: Laboratory: complete blood count, glycemia, transaminase ionogram,▁erythrodidymis, urine analysis, Arch 5.
- imaging: chest, whole-spine, skull, hip and lower limbs x-rays; abdominal ultrasound; computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen-pelvis without and with intravenous contrast; magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Both conventional radiology and CT showed a nonspecific osteolytic lesion with poorly defined margins that compromised the bone marrow, with respective fracture traces respected associated with the midline and diaphytic level and periphytic reaction.
The adjacent soft tissues were impressed to be compromised.
X-ray of both front hips.
Alteration of the bony structure is observed with decrease of the cortical bone at the metaphysis level with diaphyseal extension of right.
▁Right vs. wrong.
Note the fracture in the lower and middle third.
Axial sections of computed tomography (CT) of the right thigh with a soft tissue window.
Bone marrow densitometric changes associated with adjacent muscles are observed.
Signs of fracture with cortical bone thinning are observed with a bone window.
Associated with its contralateral homologue, atrophic changes in the muscular plane are evident.
Fixed versus post-surgical fixation.
Bone graft was observed with screw plate fixation.
MRI demonstrated the presence of multiloculated cystic images with heterogeneous signal hypointensity on T1 and high intensity on T2 and Stir, with tenuous reinforcement post-contrast.
It also aimed at the margins and extension (32 cm longitudinally) of the lesion and confirmed the involvement of adjacent soft tissues.
An association with muscle hypotrophy was observed.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the right thigh.
Axial sequences T1 and T2 showed heterogeneous, hypointense signal changes at T1, and iso-hypertensive at T2, intramedullary bone adjacent to the soft tissues.
coronal Fat-sat and coronal T1.
Multiloculated cystic images with heterogeneous signal hypointensity on T1 and high intensity on T2 and Stir are observed.
The cephalad extension of the mental retardation lesion of the right is evidenced.
As auxiliary data, the blood count result revealed minimal decrease in red blood cells, with mild leukocytosis and increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate; the Arch 5 was negative in the first analyses, varying to positive weeks later.
Osteomyelitis - solitary patient with a pathological fracture with the presence of a solitary focal lesion, the following differential diagnoses are proposed: - Primary tumours: • Osteosarcoma • cystic lymphoma • multiple myeloma:
Histopathological diagnosis determined that it was a bone hydatid disease.
Hydatidosis is a parasitic disease caused by the larvae of Echinococcus, usually of the species E. granulosus.
