A 28-year-old boy was born as a product of a third gestation of a bosian mother.
A well-controlled pregnancy with a normal evolution was performed and the patient ended with cesarean section after failed induction.
For the first time, during the dilation period, the pregnant woman mentioned that she had Chagas disease, stating that she had been beaten by a "wife" at the age of 6 years old in Bolivia and that she did not want to provide information when she lived in Bolivia 8 years old
He currently lives in Spain and has not returned to his country.
Physical examination of the newborn showed a healthy weight child appropriate for her gestational age 05Kg), who began breastfeeding in the immediate postpartum period.
Subsequent reviews confirmed neurological normality, semiological concordance with gestational age and absence of visceromegaly both clinically and sonographically, as well as cross-border ultrasound was also normal.
Hepatology and biochemistry normal.In the first week of life the patient remained asymptomatic and with a good blood curve.
After delivery, parasitological studies were performed in blood samples from the child and mother, and histopathological studies were performed from the placenta and umbilical cord.
Direct examination of the mother's blood (microhealing and culture) was negative, and only PCR detected the▁bloodstream.
The serology was positive, with high titers by both techniques used and by checking the evolutionary form of the facts. In the 4th - 5th day, the diagnostic confirmation of the symptomatic infection of our patient was obtained by direct smear
Subsequently, DNA from T. cruzi was isolated from cultured NNN and nested PCR was detected.
Histopathological studies from the placenta and umbilical cord indicated the presence of forms amass.
Treatment was initiated with▁benzeneidazole (Radanil 100 mg comp.)
at a dose of 8 mg/kg/day.
The treatment was administered 2 days in the hospital and then continued at home for 60 days.
After discharge, clinical and/or analytical controls occurred at one month, and then at 4 months and 7 months of life.
Parasitological controls by direct examination, culture and PCR were negative after 20 days of treatment initiation and serological studies were negative after 4 months.
At one year of life, there was a last clinical control, without serological testing control, and later contact with the patient was lost.
Microscopic study of chorionic membranes presenting macrophages and giant cells with intracytoplasmic vesicles.
Multiform mononuclear cells amass T. cruzi.
Laboratory results in the mother and child, at birth and during treatment control with ELISA R (with recombinant antigen) positive r ratio r>1bELISA C (co total antigen U units, positive U>20.
