An 18-year-old woman with a history of congenital left renal agenesis.
The patient was evaluated for a 10-day history of high fever with cough and sputum, which did not improve despite antibiotic therapy.
She's febrile and in respiratory failure.
In the analytical leukocytosis and thrombocytosis, Quick of 49%.
X-ray showed pleural effusion to apex.
Percentesis was performed, obtaining purulent fluid (with characteristics of empyema and ADA of 1U/L), a pleural drainage tube was placed.
She was admitted to the intensive care unit, with fever despite wide spectrum ATB, and a fistula from pleural cavity to skin developed.
Actinomyces turicensis, Fus necrophorum and Peptostreptococcus anaerobius were isolated from pleural fluid.
He was treated with penicillin G and clindamycin.
Serological study and isolation did not demonstrate immunosuppression.
After 2 months of admission and good radiological evolution, drainage was removed.
As a complication associated with cutaneous rash (generalised maculo-papular rash, affecting palms), with marked edematization, CRP, lymphocytosis and increased stenosis (Sdme Dress).
Penicillin and clindamycin were discontinued, starting▁steroids and corticosteroids.
The evolution is favorable, with normalization of X-ray and acute phase reactants.
Antibiotic therapy was suspended at 10 months.
Actin is a rare disease characterized by abscesses, tissue fibrosis, and fistulization.
Caused by gram-positive, non-spore forming anaerobic bacteria of the genus Actinomyces.
Colonizers of the mouth, rectum and genital tract
The most common locations are cervicofacial, thoracic, CNS and pelvic.
Thoracic actims can affect pulmonary parenchyma,▁mediastinum.
The transmission forms include microaspirations, direct extension/phistulization of cervicofacial, mediastinal or retroperitoneal infection (pelvic abscess).
The symptoms are mild, similar to tuberculosis; cough, weight loss, fever and chest pain.
It has been frequently described in immunosuppressed patients.
It is more common in immunocompromised patients, but in some cases there is no underlying disease or immunosuppression.
The peculiarity of the case is the acute and severe presentation, which is atypical in this type of infections.
In addition, this is a young immunocompetent patient without primary cervicofacial/odontogenic alterations.
