A 41-year-old male with fever in peaks of up to 40°C with tiritons for 5 days, who were on antipyretics.
For two weeks she reported testicular pain, voiding syndrome and rectal pain unrelated to bowel movements.
On physical examination, a 39°C fever was observed, with a large and painful prostate rectal palpation.
You have tachycardia, hypotension, and oliguria
Laboratory tests revealed leukopenia, thrombopenia and mild coagulopathy.
The protocol of Sepsis Code was activated and a portable abdominal ultrasound with normal kidneys was requested.
The seminal vesicles are increased with decreased echogenicity.
The prostate has increased size (48 mm of longitudinal axis), with hypoechoic areas in anterior lobes, which could be related to acute prostatitis.
Testicular ultrasound was performed with small right hydrocele.
She was admitted to the ICU in a situation of septic shock with renal failure, hemodynamics, thrombopenia and coagulopathy.
Hemocultive and urocultives were removed and empirical treatment with ceftriaxone and ciprofloxacin was initiated.
Due to the poor evolution of the patient, an abdominal CT with intravenous contrast was performed.
In a prostatic cell, a polylobulated collection of 5x4x3.2 cm is identified, opened to the left ischiorectal muscles where another collection of 3 x 1 cm is identified in relation to abscesses.
It was decided to perform a surgical intervention by the Urology Department.
In the previous transrectal ultrasound, multiple abscesses were identified by performing transperineal percutaneous drainage guided with needle, with extraction of 50-70 cc of purulent content.
An incision is made of the most superficial abscess, building the cavity that communicates with all abscesses.
She was debrided and urethral stricture appeared with a bladder catheter.
All initial hemocultives and urocultives were sterile.
Staphylococci capitis grew in the purulent samples from the operating room.
The patient improved progressively in the following days after the intervention, with good spontaneous diuretic rhythm with normal renal function, completely recovered platelets, normal coagulation and disappearance of ischemic lesions of the toes.
