Clinical HISTORY ON CLASSICAL ADDRA Fever, chills, arthromyalgia,▁malaise
Personal history No known allergies,▁acetylsalicylic acid intolerance.
A history of controlled rheumatic disease in outpatient clinics of Rheumatology No pathological history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia or heart disease known.
Surgical antecedents: a mental illness treated surgically, was excised in 1975 due to thrombocytopenia, meniscus intervention left knee.
He only remembered annual influenza vaccination.
Current pharmacological treatment: paracetamol, colchicine, chondrosán and calcium.
PRESENTATION: A 67-year-old woman with a history of high fever (39oC), chills and▁malaise, referred to the emergency department complaining of 12 hours of evolution.
She reported symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection in the last 15 days, which she had been treated with paracetamol.
No voiding syndrome, no depositional changes, no chest pain, no abdominal pain or other accompanying symptoms to highlight.
FYSICAL EXPLOORATION • CONSTACT VI0/90: TA 11 mmHg, FC 97, T. ax.
37,9o, FR 16, sat.
O2 96% aa.
• GENERAL ASPECT: relatively affected, normohydrated, well perfused, no skin lesions, adenopathies are not diagnosed.
• CARDIOCIRCULATORIO: rhythmic tones, without audible murmurs, no orthopnea, no edema, peripheral pulses present and symmetrical.
• RESPIRATORY: eupneic, vesicular murmur preserved, no auscultation is abnormal.
• ABDOMEN: blando e presible, no pain related to constipation, peristalsis, negative affect, not obsceromegaly.
• NEUROLOGICAL: preserved upper mental functions, conserved language and speech, normal size and normoreactive isochoric pupils, no alteration in the cranial nerves dysmetria, no motor deficit, no meningeal sensation.
• CARA AND OROFARINGE: Hyperaemia in the pharynx, non-adenopathy.
378.5% BL, 31.5% BL, 1% BL, 3% BL, 3% BL, 3% BL, 3% BL, 3% BL, 3% BL, 3% BL, 3% BL, 4% BL, 3% BL, 4% BL, 3% BL, 4% BL, 3% BL, 4% BL, 4% BL, 4% BL, 3% BL, 4% BL, 4% BL, 4% BL, 4% BL, 4% BL, 4% BL, 4% BL, 3% BL
Chest X-ray: preserved cardiothoracic index, no images of pulmonary condensation, no images of pleural effusion re-pulmonary blockade, no pleural pathology ECG: sinus at 90 bpm, axis within normal limits, no preserved PR.
EVOLUTION Given the history of anatomical asplenia and fever, complete blood count, biochemistry, coagulation, arterial gas, urinalysis, chest X-ray, ECG are requested and blood tests are performed.
Treatment with 2 g ev of ceftriaxone was initiated, fluids and 50 mg of dexketoprofen were also administered to treat fever, arthromyalgia and▁malaise.
After a favorable evolution in Observation of the Emergency Department and the results of the complementary examinations within the normal range, it was decided to admit the patient to the Short Stay Unit for follow-up.
The patient anecdotally shows reactance at admission, it is explained that it is an admission, except for a number of about 12-24 hours, because his history of surgery has not been repeated due to feverish organ.
After receiving help and understanding from the family, the patient had no problems.
Admission to the Short Stay Unit was made with the recommendations listed below.
RECOMMENDATIONS admittance to the SSU: Hyposodic diet.
Constants control every 8 hours.
Physiological serum 1,500 ml x 24 hours.
Control of diuresis.
Ceftriaxone 2 g ev.
every 12 hours.
Acetaminophen 1 g every 8 hours if you have a fever.
Analytical control for 8 hours the next day.
EVOLUTION: Twenty-three hours after admission to the SSU, the patient managed to achieve a plateau by repeated loads of normal saline without hypotension.
The patient is placed in the Critical Box, new analytical is requested and hemocultives are taken.
* Total neutrophil count * 11.97 x10^3/μL Neutrophils * 94.1% Total neutrophil count * 11.28 x10^3 Platelets ** 10 x10^3/μL
Blood gas analysis abnormal pH * 7.33 mmol/L SBE * -8 mmol/L positive saturation O2 98 %
A second antibiotic was added, levofloxacin 500 mg ev every 12 hours, fluid infusion, bladder catheter and hourly diuresis control.
Drum is channeled to control PVC.
Confirmation of platelet count was requested, which was confirmed (platelets 7,000 with citrate tube), 2 pools of platelets were requested.
After the administration of successive fluid loadings without achieving hemodynamic stability, the administration of vasoactive drugs in perfusion ev begins and the patient is referred to the Intensive Care Unit.
Diagnosis: Septic shock due to bacteremia▁Pneumococcal bacteraemia probable respiratory focus and multiorgan dysfunction (dynamic, respiratory, renal, hepatic dysfunction, coagulopathy).
In the ICU, the patient has poor prognosis, needs invasive mechanical ventilation, vasoactive drug infusion at increasing doses, continuous hemovenous dressing, severe ICD, refractory platelet evolution.
On day 16 of admission: Aspergillus niger pneumonia, evolution to invasive aspergillosis Progressive worsening with death on day 40 of admission.
