Anamn Female patient, 75 years old, with a history of hypertension and dyslipidemia under treatment, who was admitted from the emergency department in the Department of Neurology due to verdict and diplopia.
It began abruptly and at rest, with a picture of dizziness described as vérrez con giro de objects, intense and disabling, accompanied by vegetative symptoms and loss of hearing in the right ear.
She was evaluated by her primary care physician, who indicated symptomatic treatment without benefit.
A week later, the patient came to the emergency department again due to the persistence of symptoms and the appearance of vesicles in the right ear, so she was assessed with the diagnostic impression of herpes zoster sul otic emptying.
After 8 days, the patient reported binocular horizontal diplopia, with no improvement of previous symptoms.
Ophthalmology assessment revealed paresis of the fourth right cranial nerve.
A basic general analytical (11,888 leukocytes/mm3, neutrophils 82%, without other alterations), a cranial computed tomography (CT) and orbits (without remarkable findings) were performed and it was decided to enter the Neurology Service.
The patient had no fever or previous systemic infectious symptoms, had no TBI or other symptoms in the rest of the oriented anamnesis.
Pathway to general▁malaise
Highlight: mild illness.
▁Right external auditory behavior (EAC) with multiple herpetic vesicles.
neurological impairment.
Cortical functions: good level of consciousness.
▁Guided by three.
Coherent verbal language without dysphasic elements or dysarthria.
No visuospatial heminegligence.
Non-extinctive or visual.
Cranial nerves: isochoric pupils, conserved photomotor and consensual reflexes.
Normal confrontation campimetry.
Primary outcome measure: a tendency towards the appearance of a left eye, pairs of left eye adduction without ptosis.
Horizontal nystagmus in the extreme right horizontal gaze.
V sensory and motor cranial nerve without alterations.
No facial weakness.
▁Right hypoacusis.
Weber's test lateralized to the left.
Rinne test was positive bilaterally.
Lower cranial nerves without alterations.
Motor system: no claudication in antigravity maneuvers.
Normal muscle strength, 5/5 per muscle group.
Normal tonus and tapering.
Bilateral symmetrical REM ++/+++, without pathological responses.
Cutaneous-plantar bilateral flexor contracture.
Liability: preserved in all its forms.
Equilibrium, coordination and gait: no cerebellar signs.
Bipedalism and gait were not exploitable due to active vertigo.
No meningeal signs.
▁Complementary tests • General analysis: blood count, basic coagulation, complete biochemistry, enzymes, lipid profile, thyroid profile, vitamin B12 and folic acid normal.
Globular sedimentation rate was 6 mm/h.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study: normal opening pressure.
Glucose 55 mg/dl (40-70 mg/dl), total protein 23.40 mg/dl (less than 40 mg/dl).
Cellularity: 40 leukocytes/ mm3, predominantly MN (90%), 0 leukocytes/mm3.
• Pathological anatomy: benign cytology.
Phrotis with mononuclear▁lymphocytic pleocytosis.
• Microbiology: culture in usual media for negative bacteria.
Virological study: herpes zoster, herpes simplex 1 and 2 and enterovirus negative.
• Chest X-ray: no abnormalities.
• Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain: replacement of normal CSF from the fundus of the right internal auditory canal (IAC) with hypointense material at T2, which shows intense enhancement after gadolinium administration
Posterior knee, posterior cochlea enhancement (mainly basal and middle turn), vestibule enhancement and total facial nerve canal (labyrinthine segments, anterior knee).
The findings are compatible with an inflammatory process, affecting the right facial and vestibulocochlear nerves.
No meningeal enhancement was observed.
• Control cerebral MRI (15 days later): radiological stability compared to previous MRI, showing inflammatory changes affecting right VII and VIII cranial nerves.
Hearing loss - mild hearing loss in severe and middle ear with symmetrical drop in acute.
Left ear: normoacusis.
Diagnosis▁Right otic herpes zoster with inflammatory polyneurotic involvement of the VIII cranial nerve (vestibular and cochlear) right, of the third left cranial nerve and probably of the fourth right cranial nerve.
Treatment General measures: rest, hydration, antiemetics.
Treatment was established with intravenous aviral 10 mg/kg/day, 3 times a day for 15 days; diazepam, 5 mg every 8 hours, and intravenous sulfonylurea, 100 mg every 8 hours.
Hearing loss at admission was marked by important vertigo symptoms, right-sided hearing loss, dizziness, nausea and vomiting, in addition to diplopia, which gradually improved.
One month later, only horizontal diplopia persisted in the left extreme gaze with horizontal-rotation nystagmus in the supralevoversion, hypoacusis and gait with tendency to the right supralevoversion.
He was evaluated in the Department of Otolaryngology, performing tests and VNG, which showed a right vestibular deficit of 100%.
Keeps hearing loss and TA stable.
