Anamnesis A 70-year-old woman with a history of hypothyroidism on hormone replacement therapy with levothyroxine and latent tuberculosis infection, who had received chemoprophylactic treatment in 2007.
Urinary incontinence and habitual constipation.
The patient came to her reference hospital with a clinical picture of nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain of hours of evolution.
On the same day of admission, the patient is asymptomatic, suffers from mental illness as usual, and when she returns home, she complains of significant drowsiness to her family members.
Later she presents abdominal pain at the epigastric level with nausea and vomiting, so she comes to the emergency room.
She was admitted to the Gastroenterology Service with diagnostic orientation of epigastric pain under study.
During her stay in the ward, she showed a tendency to drowsiness and bipsychia, with a Glasgow coma scale score of 14.
On the third day of admission she presented a generalized seizure with post-critical left hemiparesis.
An urgent cranial computed tomography (CT) is performed and the findings are derived to our center in charge of the Neurology Service to continue the etiological study.
Afebril physical layout.
Arterial hypertension 135/78 mmHg.
Heart rate was 76 bpm.
Saturation of oxygen 99%.
Cardiac arrest: cardiac tones, rhythmic, without murmurs.
The vesicular eruption was conserved: mucus, with no noises.
Abdomen: blandom and depressible, peristalsis present, without masses or enlargement, with pain gestures to peritoneal palpation at the level of the epigastrium but without signs of irritation.
Neurological alteration: tendency to sleepiness, with response to intense verbal stimuli.
B.P.▁~~~ 's important.
Moderate dysarthria, decreased verbal fluency,▁obeys two simple orders, then intoxicates.
Established left facial-brachial hemiparesis: upper limb 4+/5.
cutaneous-plantar left extensor.
▁Complementary tests • General analysis: normal blood count.
Coagulation: ÷-D 3,482.97 ng/ml.
Biochemistry: sodium 128 mmol/l, potassium 3.2 mmol/l, calcium 7.6 mg/dl, normal rest, including liver profile.
• Chest X-ray: no significant pleuroparenchymal alterations.
• Thoracic CT angiography: subsegmental bilateral pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE).
• Urgent skull CT (without/with contrast): blurring of cortical grooves and right silvian fissure.
Malignant cortico-subcortical differentiation with presence of extensive hypodense area in the territory of the right middle cerebral artery (DCA).
Contrast capture at the level of the right grooves.
All these were oriented as a possible subacute ischemic infarction with signs of hemorrhagic transformation.
• Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain at 24 hours: cortical hyperintensity on T2 and FLAIR at the level of the right temporal lobe, associated with blurring of grooves and markedly collapsed right ventricle.
Dissemination restriction.
After contrast administration, gyriform leptomeningeal enhancement was observed at the right insular level.
Emergency MRI.
T2 sequence in which hyperintensity is observed in the right mesial temporal region, with hippocampus, parahipocampal structures, lateral temporal circumsula and right insula affectation.
Dissemination sequence with diffusion restriction.
• Brain MRI (20 days later): the presence of leptomeningeal and intraparenchymatous gyriform uptake is still observed.
Improvement of cortical edema with no clear restriction of diffusion.
• Brain MRI (at 33 days): hyperintense lesion on T2 and FLAIR, located at the right fronto-temporal-parietal level, predominantly cystic and necrotic, with multiple areas of transformation.
After contrast administration, gyriform uptake persists located at the right insular level, with large intraparenchymal nodules with peripheral enhancement.
Control magnetic resonance imaging.
Hyperintense lesion on T2 with multiple cystic areas and bleeding areas
After contrast administration, peripheral enhancement is observed.
• Urgent electroencephalogram (EEG): Nearly continuous▁epileptiform activity at the right temporal level in the form of acute hypervoluted waves that sometimes discharge pseudoperiodicly and others completely chaotically.
They often diffuse into the ipsilateral centroparietal region.
Periodes with few seconds of electrical silencing.
Statement compatible Epi.
• EEG (at 28 days): diffuse brain slowing with clear signs of injury at left temporal level.
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF): normal biochemistry,▁adenosine deaminase (ADA) normal, genome amplification negative group virus, culture of bacteria, mycobacteria (L negative emergency herpes virus) and
• CSF (at 13 days): normal biochemistry, normal ADA, cytology for malignancy, negative antineuronal antibodies and negative N-methyl-D receptor 14.
• Mantoux negative.
Thyroid hormones: normal.
• Antithyroid antibodies: negative.
• Tumor markers: negative.
• CT scan of the chest, abdomen, pelvis: no evidence of a mass suggestive of neoplasia is found.
Diagnosis • Status▁epilepticus non-refractory.
• Alteration of the right temporal cortical signal secondary to status epi.
• An intracranial space occupying lesion of uncertain origin.
Treatment and evolution The decision was made to transfer the patient to our centre with a diagnosis of ischaemic stroke in the territory of the MDCA, according to the report of the emergency cranial CT.
After the initial evaluation of the patient we propose a wider range of diagnostic possibilities.
An emergency EEG is performed, which is compatible with non-convulsive status and intravenous treatment with antiepileptic drugs is initiated.
refractory to the fourth line of treatment, she was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for barbit coma, which was maintained for one week until the electrical control of her condition.
After the withdrawal of sedative drugs and once in the plant, the patient remains with a low level of consciousness, progresses to a situation of deep coma and dies three months after the onset of symptoms.
Due to institutional problems, we could not perform necropsy.
What were our main diagnostic hypotheses?
Initially, the possibility of herpetic encephalitis was considered, due to the initiation of treatment with arsenic.
The negativity of the microbiological study was subsequently removed.
The possibility of a pneumococcal or tuberculous meningitis was ruled out, given the patient's history.
The diagnosis of a negative encephalitis was also proposed, but it was also diagnosed as an autoimmune type due to antiNMDA antibodies, since it is associated with a rapid deterioration in the level of consciousness and refractory epilepsy in our ICU.
In addition, we were against the poor clinical outcome despite having received treatment with corticosteroids and the absence of systemic neoplasia (related in these cases more frequently to ovarian teratoma).
Due to her history of hypothyroidism, thyroid hormones and antithyroid antibodies in blood were requested, which were negative, so a neurological deterioration encephalopathy was diagnosed.
Protein 14.3.3 was also requested in CSF to rule out prion disease, which was negative.
Finally, after analyzing the clinical-radiological evolution of the patient, our diagnostic impression to date, despite not having histological confirmation, is that his coma state was the clinical expression of a non-convulsive status brain injury initially attributed to an underlying cortical lesion level suggestive of malignancy.
We believe that this entity could be related to a paraneoplasic state of origin.
