PRESENT ANESTHETIC ANESTHETATION, PRESENTATION AND EXPLORTS A 31-year-old male native to Spain, with a history of anxiety disorder, without other relevant pathological antecedents.
No current treatment.
She came to the clinic due to dyspnea of small effort, presyncopal episodes and anxiety.
She was referred to Hematology due to an increase in▁eosinophils in the blood count.
The examination highlights: conscious, oriented, alert.
Normal language
Normal cranial nerves.
Rhythmic cardiac noises without murmurs.
The vesicular murmur was preserved without added noises.
The nodule is palpable 6 cm below the left costal margin.
No lower limb edema.
Peripheral pseudoaneurysms were normal.
COMPLEMENTARY PRUEBES The analysis highlights an increase in▁eosinophils.
With the suspicion of hypereosinophilic syndrome, a new analytical and extension study is requested.
Absence of parasitic infection, allergy, or lung disease justifying this condition.
Laboratory analysis: white blood cell count 10e3/uL (3.5-12), hemoglobin 11.9 g/dl (13.5-17.2), platelet count 196x10e3/uL.
Creatinine 1.32 mg/dl.
Peripheral eosinophilia of 5000 elements/mmc.
Troponin 0.020 ng/ml (0-0.056).
Genetic study: 4q12 deletion associated with FIP1L1-PDFGFRA rearrangement.
Echocardiogram: with signs of endocarditis.
ECG: sinus rhythm at 56 bpm, narrow QRS with normal configuration, axis 60o and transition in V3.
Universal negative T waves.
Abdominal ultrasound showed homogeneous stenosis of 17.5 cm.
Chest CT showed no pulmonary infiltrates.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging 1 (MRI 1): a restrictive pattern in the right cavities (small-sized ventricle, preserved ejection fraction, atrial dilatation) with apical myocardial fibrosis.
Transmural fibrosis in the midapical inferolateral wall of the left ventricle.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging 2 (MRI 2): Two hypointense images of semilunar morphology on the apex that could correspond to thrombi are observed.
Late enhancement with areas of hyperintensity of the signal of the apex of the RV and lower face of the apex of the LV that have not changed from the previous description.
Hypereosinophilia findings with biventricular restrictive cardiomyopathy.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging 3 (MRI 3): control.
Morphological abnormalities previously described EF 59% were observed. Hypointense areas of both ventricles apex with linear morphology were observed, probably corresponding to fibrosis, which led to the differential diagnosis with thrombus.
EVOLUTION Imatinib was started at a dose of 400 mg per day, well as with a rapid response, allowing a dose reduction to 100 mg per day at 2 months.
The abdominal ultrasound showed absence of stenosis.
Improvement of symptoms.
She was later diagnosed with hypertension.
We started treatment with bisoprolol 2.5 mg daily, which we have to stop due to intense asthenia.
We replaced bisoprolol by olmesartan 10 mg daily with good tolerance and good control.
With negative secondary causes studies.
Cardiac MRI showed a restrictive pattern described in the complementary tests (MRI 1).
At 12 months follow-up cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI 2), images of semilunar morphology were detected at the apex level.
Images offer a reasonable doubt about whether thromboses are located at the apical level in relation to artifacts.
In favor of thrombi, they are located on the areas of fibrosis detected in the MRI and the high thrombogenicity of this disease, although the fact that an artefact could also treat both ventricles suggests that it is also possible.
Echocardiography shows no evidence of intracerebral thrombus.
We explain the situation to the patient and start anticoagulation with sintrom, which again we have to stop due to intense asthenia and musculoskeletal pain.
We suggest the possibility of initiating treatment with rivaroxaban 20 mg daily, with use for indication outside the technical file.
After explaining to the patient that it is not an indication studied in clinical trials or approved by the Ministry of Health jointly treatment, in controls it presents good tolerance and disappearance of symptoms attributed to sintrom.
In the follow-up magnetic resonance imaging (MRI 3), after 3 months of anticoagulation, the same images still appear, which are not on echocardiography.
With these data, we conclude that artifacts can be treated, however, since thrombosis persists in up to 25% of the cases, and that current indications for anticoagulation therapy include the initiation of treatment, even when treatment is initiated with medication.
DIAGNOSIS Myelooproliferative neoplasia associated with rearrangement FIP1L1-PDGFR.
Restrictive cardiomyopathy with apical and inferolateral myocardial fibrosis of the LV and apical of the RV.
Probable LV apex thrombi in hypereosinophilic syndrome essential hypertension.
