Anamnesis A 91-year-old woman with senile dementia, hypertension, cholecystectomy, right hip replacement surgery, ovarian pathology, hysterectomy and double adnexectomy due to intestinal cancer and diverticular disease
Urological-digestive history: stress urinary incontinence, recurrent urinary infections (with urocultives positive for Escherichia coli and Enterococcus faecalis).
She came to the Urology Department due to episodes of hypogastric discomfort accompanied by dysuria, occasional hematuria and frequent emission of badly smelled and choluric urine.
He was admitted to the General Surgery Department at the end of the year due to intestinal obstruction and fever.
Computed tomography (CT) revealed bladder hypersensitivity + perisigmoid fat mass + cystulization and bladder 1.5 cm sigmoid-lateral + pneumolithiasis.
Discharge and surgical closure of the fistula were performed.
Two months after surgery, the patient came again to the Urology Department due to persistent dysuria, hematuria and hypogastric discomfort, although the previous urine collection and intervention had a poor response.
In the ultrasound and control CT scan, an image suggestive of "lithiasis" of 1.5 cm was observed in the bladder, already described in the CT scan prior to surgery.
Treatment The endoscopic extraction-fragmentation of this lithiasis was decided as treatment.
We endoscopically▁appreciated bladder "lithiasis", observing only fragmentation of the hard peripherical quadrant, identifying an infragmentable nucleus by endoscopic pneumatic lithotripsy.
Due to the extreme hardness, it is rejected to continue with the bladder lithotripsy and to extract the lithiasis with support of nephrosis endo Ch and cesmia.
When analyzing this "lithiasis" on the operating room table, our surprise was that this lithiasic mold corresponded to a bone of a fruit, probably a smallpox.
The old patient, who had difficulty chewing, in ingesting a smallpox for more than 6 months, was involuntaryly swallowed the bone of the fruit, which had a divertical bladder through his intestinal fistula.
After the extraction of the endovesical bone, the symptoms of dysuria and hematuria disappeared.
