A 9-year-old female student was admitted to the Department of Infectious Pediatrics with a predominance of facial pain (PMI) with fever, mild fever, vomiting, chills, fever, feverish flushing 4 weeks before admission.
Physical examination revealed cervical adenomegaly and hepatomegaly 4.5 cm below the right costal margin.
In the laboratory routine was found moderate leukocytosis with▁lymphomonocytosis, slight elevation of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (GSR), C-reactive protein, muscle enzymes, creatine kinase (CKisoMB) and enzyme-myocardial creatine kinase.
Serology for Epstein virus disease (EVB), cytomegalovirus (CMV), toxoplasmosis and histoplasmosis were negative as well as Mantoux test, bacteriological and mycological cultures
Sputum examination did not report acid-fast bacilli (AAR).
Chest and abdominal X-rays and tomography were within normal limits.
Plasmodium spp. was reported by a private laboratory (data not corroborated later) and based on high fever preceded by chills, thick blood smear was requested to verify the presence of extended fever.
During the first days, several thick smears were performed, but this diagnosis was not confirmed.
An extracellular parasitarian form compatible with Trypanosoma cruzi trypsin cysts was visualized in peripheral blood smears on December 2007.
The Institute of Tropical Medicine was consulted confirming the finding of few trypomastigotes of T. cruzi in the fresh and thick smear examination.
Thepresence of specific antibodies IgM and IgG anti-T. cruzi was demonstrated by enzyme immunoassay (ELISA) and indirect hemagglutination.
Molecular diagnosis was established by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
A small portion of the sample was cultured in a biphasic medium and intraperitoneally▁inoculated in two mice to ensure the growth of the parasite strain.
Without waiting for the results of molecular tests and other indirect parasitic diseases, treatment with nifurtimox (6 mg/kg/day) was immediately initiated.
No clinical, electrocardiographic or echocardiographic evidence suggestive of acute myocarditis or pericardial effusion was found.
When treated, the patient presented with octavody, visual manifestations disappeared within 24 hours.
On the ninth day, episodes of supraventricular arrhythmia were observed with Supra Ventricular CsPs without evidence of injury.
Troponin I showed normal values.
At day 11, mild bipalpebral edema disappeared within 36 hours (parasitemia/treatment ratio: unknown).
On December 19, 2007, the patient was discharged with the diagnosis of Chagas' disease in acute phase, prolonged febrile syndrome resolved, precocious puberty under study and high height under study.
His general condition was good and the antiparasitic medication was maintained for 3 months.
During the evolution of the serological tests, a decrease in the optical densities of IgM is shown, but the maintenance of IgG values.
Culture isolation and inoculation in animals were accomplished and the isolate was identified as Trypanosoma cruzi of molecular lineage.
During follow-up, cardiological controls (ECG, Holter and echocardiogram) from January to June 2008 were within normal limits.
