5 days of consultation Distal paraesthesias in both lower limbs Individual focus (anamnesis, exploration, complementary tests) 55 year old male patient who comes to his health center for onset with fever symptoms up to 38oC
On physical examination, hyperemic pharynx is highlighted without other relevant findings.
He was diagnosed with acute pharyngitis and treated with acetylcysteine and paracetamol.
After 10 days of evolution of the fever and once resolved, the patient returned to the doctor due to distal paresthesias in both lower limbs and in 3-4th finger of the right hand associated with weakness of quadriceps dizziness.
No difficulty swallowing, breathing and coughing.
No previous gastrointestinal symptoms.
The physical examination revealed a lack of strength with the patient walking on tiptoes and heels and osteotendinous reflexes hypo exhaustion.
Having these findings, your doctor decides to refer you to the hospital emergency department for evaluation of complementary tests and to rule out possible Guillain&#146;s syndrome.
A CT scan of the head was performed in the emergency room. The result was a nonspecific white matter hyperdense lesion, with a left frontal subcortical area of 9x7mm, with no mass effect or associated perilesional edema that did not show enhancement with intravenous contrast administration.
The patient was admitted to the hospital. General analysis included complete blood count; biochemistry renal, hepatic function tests negative for dengue fever, leucotropine,▁erythromycin, hepatitis A virus Treglister virus, hepatitis C virus and hepatitis C virus, pary viraemia,
Lumbar puncture: proteins 87.9, leukocytes 2, PCR of neurotropic virus negative.
Negative fluid culture.
Cranial MRI to expand the study of the lesion detected in CT: a lesion occupying the left frontal intraparenchymatous space of heterogeneous intensity, with a hyperintense center and hypointense halo is confirmed.
Findings in relation to cavernoma.
Electroneurophysiological study: normal.
No significant changes were observed in the sensory-motor conduction or in the reflex response F of the nerves explored in the four limbs (median N, ulnar, peroneal, superficial tibial, sural).
Family and community approach Works as a two- buildings jail.
Your wife doesn't work.
She has a daughter with Down syndrome.
She has full and complete support from her family during her hospital stay.
Clinical judgement (differential diagnosis) Clinical judgment: Guillain syndrome-associated.
Left frontal tumor as an incidental finding.
Differential diagnoses that have been ruled out with complementary tests include: myasthenia Gravisemic, lateral amyotrophic meningitis, acute viral poliomyelitis, Botulism, Borreliosis (acute Lys disease).
Plan of action and evolution During his admission he is given intravenous immunoglobulins with good and rapid clinical response of proximal femoral weakness.
He doesn't need treatment at discharge.
The patient was reviewed in the Neurology Department two months later, after a progressive improvement during admission and in the following days, he remained asymptomatic.
He's got a next scheduled neurology check-up in a year.
