An 84-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency department due to a one-week history of cough associated with dyspnea and hemoptoic expectoration since the previous day.
His personal history included hypertension, hyperthyroidism with endothoracic goiter and non-anticoagulated atrial fibrillation.
Tuberculosis in childhood with chronic bronchiectasis and left lower lobectomy in 2001.
There are no studies on respiratory function.
In June 2008, the patient presented recurrent pericardial effusion requiring pericardiocentesis due to cardiac tamponade, with a diagnosis of probable tuberculous pericarditis based on the clinical findings, elevated serum chemistry of the pericardial fluid and pleocytosis.
Bacterial cultures were negative but no mycobacterial study was performed.
Correct treatment was completed with four drugs rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and etambucil for two months, followed by rifampicin and isoniazid for six months, with no clinical recurrence, although with persistence of residual lateral effusion.
At present, treatment with levothyroxine 175 mcg, sertraline 50 mg, furosemide 40 mg, consolidations 20 mg, lormetazepan 2 mg, metamizole 75 mg, A
The patient complained of coughing for one week with haemoptoic expectoration (up to 14 spoons/ day) in the past 24 hours, accompanied by dyspnea without fever or dysthermic sensation.
Non-semiology of heart failure.
There was no history of respiratory infections in the last year, no weight loss or other associated symptoms.
Examination upon arrival at the emergency department revealed absence of fever, tachypnea at 30 breaths/minute, with basal oxygen saturation of 85%.
He had tachycardia with atrial fibrillation at 140 systoles per minute and blood pressure of 120 mmHg.
On auscultation, generalized hypoventilation was observed in the left hemithorax, roncus and subcrepitants ̄s extracts in both lung fields with arrhythmic cardiac tones without murmurs or extracts.
He did not present jugular engorgement, hepatomegaly or lower limb edema.
Among the complementary tests performed, the chest X-ray showed a left hemithorax due to pleural effusion, probably due to ipsilateral stenosis, without displacement of the trachea and▁mediastinum.
The emergency laboratory tests showed a deterioration of renal function with creatinine of▁2.9 mg/dl and urea of 138 mg/dl.
Acute phase reactants were elevated with a C-reactive protein (CRP) of 200 mg/l and 31,000 leukocytes (96% PMN).
The coagulation study showed an INR of 1.3.
The rest of the laboratory tests showed values within the normal range.
A diagnostic sentinel lymph node biopsy was performed, obtaining chocolate milk samples sent to microbiology and biochemistry.
Biochemistry of pleural fluid (LP) showed 120,000 cells, 90% PMN, LDH 60,000 mU/mL, glucose 2.03 g/l, protein 31.4 g/l, and ADA 15 mU/mL.
Gram and Ziehl-Neelsen stain of pleural fluid (LP) were negative.
Serial cultures of bacteria and mycobacteria in sputum were repeated and empirical antibiotic therapy with piperacillin-tazodone was initiated.
Diagnosis of empyema suspected▁thorax, based on the macroscopic characteristics of the PR, it was decided to place endothoracic drainage which was attempted twice unsuccessfully, for which reason computerized axial tomography (CT) was requested
This was not the case, and therefore empyema, instead of an abscess located in the left lower lobe, with a thickened septate septate septate wall, was identified by means of a thickened fluid dr.
The patient also presented complete atelectasis of the mental component and the left lower lobe, located in areas of lung air with a ground-glass pattern and diffuse interstitial nodular pattern in the left apex.
After chest CT, the diagnosis of chronic bronchiectasis infection with a micronodular pattern complicated with abscess in the left lower lobe was established.
Differential diagnosis We present the case of a patient with a diagnosis of chronic bronchiectasis secondary to previous pulmonary TB, who was admitted with signs of superinfection. A lung abscess was observed on chest CT.
Because of this clinical picture, differential diagnosis with the main etiological agents should be made in order to choose an appropriate empirical antibiotic treatment.
The most common cause of lung abscess is anaerobic bacteria: Peptostreptococcus, Prevotella, Baoides and Fustella spp.
come from the mouth of the patient.
Other germs that cause lung abscess are Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomona aeruginosa, enterobacteria (Klebsiella sp.
more frequent), Legionella and Haemophilus influenzae spp., these frequently cause overinfection of bronchiectasis, the first two being common in patients with frequent superinfections and who have previously received antibiotic cycles.
Other microorganisms implicated, although less frequently, are bacteria of the Actinomyces spp.
Given the presence of an associated micronodular pattern, we should consider the possibility of tuberculous and nontuberculous mycobacteria.
In addition to bacteria, it is important to include Aspergillus, Coccidioides, Histoplasma, Blastomyces, Cryptococcus, Mucor andcystis spp in the differential diagnosis.
Because of the absence of microbiological isolation, it was decided to perform▁bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) for sampling, sending culture of bacteria and mycobacteria from BAL fluid.
Secondary infection due to suspected chronic bronchiectasis and pulmonary abscess formation was considered the most common cause.
After two weeks of empirical treatment with piperacillin-tazodone with adequate clinical response, the patient was continued on discharge with amoxicillin-clavulanate at a dose of 875/125 mg every 8 hours.
Ten days after discharge, the patient was readmitted due to a new picture of dyspnea, cough and hemoptoic expectoration.
Chest X-ray showed no radiological progression of the process.
The patient was admitted to the hospital and during hospitalization in the ward, the results of mycobacteria cultures obtained from sputum and BAL fluid samples were received.
Final diagnosis M. intracellulare grew in two of two cultures obtained on different days, with growth time of less than 14 days.
M. intracellulare was also cultured from BAL fluid, but no other isolates were found in aerobic or anaerobic cultures.
The final diagnosis was bronchiectasis infection with M. intracellulare micronodular infiltrate and lung abscess probably secondary to M. intracellulare.
Treatment with clarithromycin, rifampicin and etambu bag was completed one year after sputum negativization, with no clinical recurrence or new sputum isolation.
