Personal history Male patient, 81 years old.
Moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), former smoker since 1998, hypertension, dyslipidemia and insulin-dependent type II diabetes mellitus (DM).
In 2010, aortic stenosis treated with bioprosthesis, whose postoperative course complicated with infection, severe respiratory wound infection and respiratory failure, was reintervened 15 days after surgery.
Moderate heart failure, Barthel index: 50 (degree)
In 2012, the patient had numerous episodes of enterococcal bacteremia admitted to the hospital on four occasions.
clavicular joint recurrence and infection recurrence was studied exhaustively in search of possible infection foci. Particularly in the prosthetic valve, it was diagnosed as a vesicular stomatitis only in a gammagraphy performed in February 2013, hypercaptation in a
Three days after the patient returned home, he developed fever,▁malaise, dyspnea, increased cough and secretions, which led him back to the hospital.
▁CLINICAL OBSERVATION At the last admission before the current disease, she was diagnosed with enterococcal osteomyelitis.
First, third generation cephalosporin is administered and then changed to ampicillin and finally to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.
During this admission, up to 4 units of catheters are administered because they have suffered an important anemization and are also due to leakage resulting from blood transfusion.
• chest pain,▁malaise, dyspnoea, engorgement, jugular venous distension,▁malaise
• Vital signs: blood pressure 120/60 mmHg, heart rate 70 bpm, temperature 39°C.
• Analytical: 20,700 thousand/mm3 Leukocytes, 8.5 g/dl hemoglobin, 199,000/mm3 platelets.
Glucose 207 mg/dl, urea 109 mg/dl, creatinine 1.6 mg/dl, sodium 135 mEq/l, potassium 4.7 mEq/l, CRP 56 mg/L.
• Electrocardiogram: atrial fibrillation at 70 bpm.
• Chest X-ray: cardiomegaly.
Aortic systolic murmur.
Bilateral pulmonary Roncus.
Gas: pO2 167, pCO2 133, pH 7.40, HCO3 20.
• Hemoculture: Enterococcus faecalis is isolated.
• Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography: A 16 x 12 mm mass image is observed in the posterior mitral valve ring.
Echogenic borders were not observed in the anterior transesophageal echocardiogram in December 2012.
• Provisional diagnosis: enterococcal endocarditis complicated by chronic anemia, acute renal failure due to aminoglycosides, acute exacerbation of COPD due to nosocomial respiratory infection due to Stenotrophomona maltophilia and
• Initial treatment: low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), furosemide, ampicillin, inhaled therapy, rest, constant monitoring, and oxygen saturation.
isolated and treated with gentamicin for 6 weeks. The patient was treated with ampicillin and 2 weeks with respiratory failure due to respiratory distress due to Streptococcus pneumoniae during hospitalization.
Due to the administration of this whole antibiotic battery, she suffers acute renal failure due to aminoglycosides, but after stopping treatment in the sixth week of treatment, it is resolved.
During hospitalization, there is a progressive worsening of chronic anemia in the patient associated with subacute infectious disease and the administration of prolonged antibiotic therapy, therefore resorting to the administration of three concentrates of selenium.
Between the third and fourth week, the patient suffers a significant worsening of his general condition, focusing on the nursing team in addressing the problems of collaboration and in the diagnosis of intolerance to the activity related to oxygen imbalance between contributions.
The patient notably improves his hematocrit and hemoglobin figures after resolution of the infectious process and administration of blood products.
From the fifth week of treatment, the patient recovers progressively, being able to work with him the diagnoses of anxiety and▁deficient knowledge as well as progressively increasing the number of activities directed to his self-care.
During his prolonged illness and numerous hospitalizations, in the last months of hospital stay, the patient suffers severe functional impairment, being unable to walk and perform basic activities of daily living; current Barthel index: 15 (Total).
After the resolution of the infectious process, the patient was discharged on May 28, 2013 and stayed in a medium-term hospital to rehabilitate the patient.
A medium-stay hospital is a level of care used to complete the rehabilitation of patients with real possibilities of recovery, who need to stay longer than those traditionally accepted in the hospital setting.
The average stay in this center ranges between 25 and 30 days, and the maximum stay should not exceed 3 months.
The medical treatment at discharge consisted of: rehabilitation, heparin, diuretics, inhalants (salbutamol and Serez® 50/100 mcg) iron and vitamin B9.
During several weeks prior to discharge, the patient did not require hypoglycemic or antihypertensive treatment.
