50-year-old male, HIV B3 (recurrent visceral leishmaniasis, oral candidiasis and CD4 <100), HCV, with undetectable viral load.
Currently without antiretroviral treatment.
The patient was admitted due to a loss of 8 kg and malnutrition, together with a moderate pancitretin.
Antiretroviral treatment is reintroduced together with stimulating factors of neutrophil and platelet colonies with good evolution.
Days later, he began to present pain and weakness in both lower limbs, and important asthenia.
Physical examination revealed multiple petechiae in the lower limbs and aphtha in the lower lip.
Severe pannitis.
It begins with a fever of 38oC, isolating in hemocultives P. aeruginosa and Morganella morganii. Treatment is initiated with meropenem, disappearance of the fever, but the persistence of the pharmacological marrow is ruled out.
This finding was initiated treatment for Mycobacterium nontuberculosis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis pending culture.
A CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed persistent mediastinal, hiliar and periaortic adenopathies, with a size similar to or smaller than the previous one.
Hepatomegaly and homogeneous scleromegaly larger than in previous 22 cm.
A week later, a CMV viral load of 2310 copies/nl was received, and treatment with foscarnet was initiated due to its low myelotoxicity potential compared to galantagonist.
Complete treatment for 21 days and objectivizing two consecutive negative viral loads.
Due to the persistence of panfaambuco, it was decided to complete the study with iliac crest biopsy, with PCR and culture for Mycobacterium nontuberculosis being positive, and then suspending treatment for TBC, maintaining treatment for ACM with a favorable response.
Infection with Mycobacterium nontuberculosis genavense
Infection with Mycobacterium genavense has been associated with lymphadenopathy and organ enlargement, especially with splenic abscess.
All HIV-infected patients with MAC infection should receive at least 12 months of therapy.
In addition, CD4 counts should be stable above 100 for at least six months before stopping treatment.
