A 63-year-old man presented to the hospital with a 6-month history of brown-skinned cough that had become hemoptoic in the last three weeks.
Among the antecedents he highlighted that he was a former smoker (40 packs/year), an alcoholism of 60 g/day: hemp worker for 15 years: he met criteria of chronic bronchitis with alpha-methyl evolution of 20 years.
He has a dog and cat at home who cares for himself.
The disease began about 6 months before, with an increase in her basal cough accompanied by brown expectoration and increased dyspnea, she also reported occasional evening fever.
No chest pain, hemoptysis, anorexia, or weight loss.
He had been treated with several antibiotics without improvement.
Three weeks before admission, expectoration was performed with hemoptoic agents, motivating the patient to consult the hospital.
Physical examination at admission showed a patient with good general condition, no fever and pulmonary auscultation revealed bilateral inspiratory crackles.
Laboratory tests showed 7,400 leukocytes with normal formula.
Basal arterial gas showed pH 7.37, pCO2 47 and p02 61 mmHg.
Urine sediment was normal.
The chest X-ray showed a bilateral interstitial pattern with areas of alveolar confluence in the left lower lobe.
The Mantoux test with 5 TU was positive at 15 mm at 48 hours.
Serial sputum smears and Lowenstein cultures were negative.
The gram of sputum on admission was reported as mixed flora, although it had characteristics for culture.
On admission, antibiotic treatment with and without prescription of oral doses of 500 mg/6 hours was initiated, along with bronchodilators and oxygen.
Since no clinical or radiological improvement was observed within 72 hours,▁bronchoscopy and BAL were performed.
Bronchoscopy showed a bilateral inflammatory process in the left base without endobronchial lesions or remnants. The predominant subtypes were LBA4 / 1 liquid: CD4 lymphocytes in 84 %, CD4 lymphocytes in 0.1 %, and CD4 lymphocytes in 8 %.
In cultures of the three portions of BAL fluid, Pasteurella punctcida grew in pure culture.
Pulmonary scintigraphy with gallium 67 showed no uptake was also performed.
In view of the patient's antibiogram, treatment with amoxicillin was continued, with good subsequent clinical evolution and complete radiological resolution at the fifth month after discharge.
In order to rule out bronchiectasis, thoracic computed tomography (CT) was performed, which confirmed the existence of bilateral bronchiectasis in the lower lobes, as well as residual fibrotic lesions in both verticoids.
