A 76-year-old male, hypertensive, dyslipidemic, with consumption in isolation, mild stenosis of unknown origin, with cholangitis secondary to bacteremia due to Klebsiella pneumoniae and a history of acute colitis in 2013.
She was operated on for prostate adenocarcinoma in 2013, with no tumor recurrence.
She was admitted for asthenia and fever without other infectious focus.
She denied recent travel abroad, domestic animals or contact with rural areas.
Pancytic colitis (Hb 8.8, Platelets 64,000, Leukocytes 1100, neutrophils 600), CRP 84.8 and coagulopathy stand out in laboratory tests, without presenting interesting findings in chest X-ray or urinary sediment.
A CT scan of the pelvis showed a heterogeneous appearance of 19 cm.
Blood samples were extracted and empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics (Meropenem) were started.
It was decided to complete the study of▁lymphocytic populations, without remarkable alterations, and puncture of bone marrow aspirate showed hyperplasia of red serial with no dysplasia data, with medullogram compatible with reactive process.
Detection of HIV antibodies, hepatotropic virus, CMV, EBV, cryptosia, Leishmania is negative, but given the high clinical suspicion, a positive PCR study of Leishmania in peripheral blood is extended.
With the result of probable visceral leishmaniasis, treatment with liposomal amphotericin B was initiated at a dose of 3 mg/kg/day on days 1-5, 14 and 21, with good evolution and negative PCR of Leishmania on day 5.
As an adverse effect of treatment, renal function deteriorates with a creatinine peak of 2.1.
After hospital discharge, follow-up is performed in our consultations, the patient is asymptomatic with normalization of renal function and positive serology of Leishmania at the rate of 1/320.
On the other hand, a review of the bone marrow aspirate by Microbiology is carried out, which, when applying Giemsa stain, observes melanomas and prosomes of Leishmania.
It is an acute infection by Leishmania in a patient with no clear epidemiological history, being a rare disease in our environment because it does not correspond to an endemic area.
