Anamnesis 69 year old male.
Personal history: hypertension, atrial fibrillation, hypertensive heart disease and prostate adenoma.
No diabetes mellitus or hypercholesterolemia.
Non-smoker.
Family history: mother with senile dementia.
The patient continued treatment with feline, digoxin and amilor-hydrochlorothiazide.
He came to the Neurology service with a progressive clinical picture of 2 years of evolution consisting of insecurity to the ̄, with imbalance, especially in gynecology.
You also have a feeling of mental illness in pins and needles from your knee.
Pain in the lumbar area is not present.
He does not describe clumsiness for movement of motor skills.
No dysphagia or dysphonia.
She hasn't had any falls.
Although he lives in a village, he has not been in contact with domestic animals nor remembers bites.
He worked as a trucker for years carrying animals.
Physical examination revealed arterial hypertension 140/90 mmHg, with a heart rate of 60 bpm.
Cardiac and pulmonary abnormalities were normal.
Good general condition.
Good coloration of skin and mucous membranes
No dermal lesions.
Higher functions preserved
Extrinsic ocular movements without limitation.
Cholesterols and normoreactive.
Normal eye fund.
Non facial.
Return of normal cranial nerves
Distal hypopalesthesia in the right lower extremity.
Dysesthesia in the upper and lower limbs
Bimale edema symmetrical ++/+++ with fovea.
Location of the right upper limb in the form of a pronation in a mesh.
No dysmetria in the toe-nose test.
Location: osteotendinous to symmetrical 2/4, except abolished here and isolated 1/4.
Bilateral Babinski sign.
She walks with an increase in the support base.
Loose instability when walking.
Claudication of the left lower extremity was ongoing on tiptoe.
▁Complementary tests • Brain magnetic resonance imaging was performed, in which an important frontal bispherical leukoaralosis was observed, mainly affecting the semioval centers and the radiated coronaries, as well as the atherosclerotic region
Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging: important bispheric leukoaraiosis compatible with small vessel disease (atherosclerotic encephalopathy).
• In the neurophysiological study with EMG and conduction velocities, a mild sensory-motor polyneuropathy of axonot-demyelinating nature and symmetrical distribution in the distal segments of both lower limbs was evidenced.
• An analytical directed to an etiological study of polyneuropathy including general biochemistry; glycosylated hemoglobin; blood count; liver, kidney and thyroid function tests; lipid profile; vitamin B12 and serum folic acid ACE antibodies; and study
Serum serology for Lyme disease, syphilis, hepatitis C and HIV was also requested, all of which were negative except for Lyme serology, which was positive (immunoassay IgG + IgM positive: 1.05).
• Lumbar puncture was performed requesting a biochemical study of cerebrospinal fluid (glucose 50 mg/dl, protein 47.9 mg/dl, 0 cells), as well as virological and bacteriological culture and syphilis serology, which were negative.
• The study was completed with toco-abdominal CT in which only the presence of a nodule of about 5 mm in the left upper lobe was highlighted, resulting in progressive control.
• A neurophysiological study was completed with somatosensory evoked potentials that showed increased latencies at presentation of peripheral components.
Diagnosis Axonal-demyelinating sensory-motor polyneuropathy in relation to Lyme disease (neuroborreliosis).
Small vessel ischemic cerebrovascular disease
Hypertrichosis
Hypertensive heart disease.
atrial fibrillation.
Pulmonary nodule of 5 mm without changes in the follow-up.
Treatment Intravenous ceftriaxone 2 gr was administered for 14 days and then orally administered 100 g ceftriaxone every 12 hours for another 14 days.
Due to the cerebral vascular pathology, the patient was also associated with triflusal treatment 300 mg. After treatment, she reported improvement of the treatment, more stable shortening sensation and pain.
In the EMG study and conduction velocities at 3 months after starting the medication, a neurophysiological improvement was also evident.
