Personal history Women paki disease, 16 years old, born in the province of Punjab (distrito de¥ insurance contract), and living in Spain for three years.
Location visit to Pakistan between July and October 2007.
She was not married or had children.
No relevant previous diseases.
He lived with his father and an uncle (grass beds), two brothers, and a niece in Los Villares (Jaén), where he is concerned with the house.
The patient was admitted to the emergency department of our hospital in May 2008 with a 4-5 day history of diffuse abdominal pain more focused on the right iliac fossa (RLF), without vomiting
Although he did not speak Spanish, in the anamnesis directed and interpreted by his elder sister, he also reported unquantified weight loss and appetite in the last 3-4 weeks and feverish sensation not thermometered.
The initial examination in the emergency room showed good general condition, temperature 37.8oC and pain at abdominal palpation in RIF with voluntary defense.
Urgent blood tests showed 13,650 leukocytes/μL, hemoglobin 11.2 g/L and prothrombin activity of 68%, with normal liver enzymes, amylase, total bilirubin and elemental urine analysis.
Abdominal ultrasound was performed, which detected numerous lymph nodes up to 11 mm in diameter in the short axis, being the cecal, hepatobiliary and renal areas normal.
With the diagnosis of "adenitis mesentery", domiciliary observation, amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, was indicated and she was referred for follow-up by Primary Care.
Seven days after the initial discharge, the patient came back to the Emergency Department of the Hospital complaining of non-thermomethoprimary daily fever, coughing scarce, fatigue in the last days, and weight loss.
Physical examination showed good general condition, temperature of 39.4oC, eupneic at rest with basal O2 saturation of 95%.
Cardiac auscultation was normal, and respiratory auscultation revealed crackles in the left hemithorax and overlapping wheezing.
The abdomen was slightly painful diffusely.
▁Complementary leukocytes were observed in the blood count and coagulation study, highlighting 15,370 leukocytes/μL (91% neutrophils), hemoglobin 10.6 g/dL, MCV 78 and prothrombin activity of 49%.
Hepatic and general biochemistry showed LDH 685 IU/L, but other parameters (including renal function, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, calcium, creatine kinase) were normal.
The chest X-ray showed condensation in the left upper lobe with cavitation zones and thickening of the left paratracheal line compatible with mediastinal lymphadenopathy and a small infiltrate in the right upper lobe.
Sputum culture was negative.
Serology for HIV, hepatitis B and C virus were negative.
treatment was initiated at discharge from the hospital with a recent visit to the country (Pakistulosa), being the province and district where there was a specific tuberculosis incidence area (200-220 cases/ 100,000 inhabitants in 2007),
Compulsory declaration and study of cohabitants were made.
The patient was discharged with the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis and probably lymph node, waiting for the result of mycobacterial culture.
Six days after discharge, the patient returned to the emergency department for oral intolerance with incoercible vomiting in the last 24 hours.
The patient had poor general condition,▁malaise, hemodynamically stable and presented diffuse abdominal pain and dystonia, with no signs of peritonitis.
Urgent blood tests showed total bilirubin 5.7 mg/dL, AST 1801 IU/L, prothrombin activity 20%, urea 8 mg/dL and creatinine 0.4 mg/dL.
With the diagnosis of severe acute hepatitis of probable toxic-drug origin secondary to tuberculous colitis, the patient was referred to the Hepatology Unit of our reference hospital (H.U.
Queen Sofia de Córdoba).
Upon admission, tuberculous treatment (HRZE) was suspended, remaining stable in the first 48 hours.
An improvement in laboratory parameters (prothrombin activity 34%, AST 395 IU/L, ALT 609 IU/L, total bilirubin 5.3 mg/dL) was observed 48 hours after treatment discontinuation.
Pantoea agglomerans was isolated in one of the three haemocultives obtained during the febrile peak. Treatment with ALT was initiated 53%L day, with a favourable fever in the hepatic unit (38.5 mg / 24 hours), with persistence of
On the sixth day of initial tuberculous treatment initiation (HRZE) a regimen of non-hepatomic quadruple therapy hepatomycin: levofloxacin/ vozol/day), et dexamethasone (200).
The initial tolerance was good, as well as the clinical and analytical evolution, but the patient, 14 days after the resumption of specific treatment, persisted with high daily fever (up to 38.5oC).
The analytical, microbiological and imaging tests performed showed no new clinical focus or evidence of added superinfection.
At this time, the possibility of one or more drugs-resistant tuberculosis of the new regimen initiated, or the possibility of a drug-induced fever, was raised.
The result of the culture of sputum mycobacterial culture was then received at the previous admission, with the following isolation: Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, sensitive to the first drugs (isoniazid, rifampicin, streptomycin-coated, streptomycin)
The anti-tuberculosis regimen was maintained, and on day +16 of its onset, the fever resolved completely and definitively.
At discharge, the patient was asymptomatic and had a fever/L with radiological improvement with the following laboratory parameters: total bilirubin 0.40 mg/dL, AST 29 IU/L, ALT 10 IU/L, GGT 155 IU/L
She was referred for follow-up to the outpatient clinic of her home hospital (Alto Guadalquivir de Andújar).
One month after discharge, the patient continued to suffer from asymptomatic tapering, gaining analytical control normal, and progressive radiological improvement.
At present, the following pharmacological regimen continues: streptomycin 750 mg im./day (two months), ethambutate 1,200 mg vo./24 hours (initial months, continuing with lineidfloxacin 10 600 mg/kg/day).
Diagnostic test Ziehl staining in sputum: positive ( abundant AFB is observed).
Sputum mycobacteria culture: Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex multisensitive was isolated.
Clinical judgement Active pulmonary tuberculosis and probably lymph node tuberculosis ( disseminated tuberculosis).
