A 22-year-old male patient from Paraguay, with newly diagnosed HIV infection.
She presented with holocrane headache of progressive installation, intensity 10/10, associated with vomiting and decreased bilateral visual acuity, of 20 days of evolution.
These symptoms were also accompanied by unquantified weight loss, asthenia, adynamia, hypoxia and intermittent fever records.
On physical examination, the patient was in regular general condition, with marked skin and mucosa▁rigidity, and bilateral blurred vision.
There were no signs of motor focus.
The patient was diagnosed with hepatomegaly and a▁conglomerate of lymph nodes in the left cervical region, with mobile lymph nodes, hard-elastic, not adhered to deep planes.
▁Dermatological examination revealed few▁papules and acneiform lesions on the back.
On admission, brain computed tomography (CT) ruled out the presence of space occupying lesions.
Eye fundus examination showed papillae with no defined edges consistent with edema.
Lumbar puncture was performed to obtain clear cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with protein binding of 0.28 g/L, glucorrhachia 51 g/L and 4 cells/uL (100% mononuclear).
The opening pressure was 45 cm H2O.
The preparation with Chinese ink of CSF sediment showed capsulate yeasts compatible with Cryptococcus sp.
Laboratory test results at admission were: hematocrit 29%, Hb 9.6 g/L, GB 2700/mm3, platelets 87.000/mm3, prothrombin concentration 68%, urea 27 mg%, creatinine 0.9
CD4 T lymphocyte count +: 21 cells/μL (8%), plasma HIV viral load: 23,238 copies per mL (log10 4,37) and Ag RK39: negative.
Cryptococcus antigen was positive with titer > 1 and antigenemia was positive > 1/10,000.
CSF culture developed Cryptococcus neoformans.
Serology by immunodiffusion and counterimmunoelectrophoresis for H. capsulatum was negative in both serum and CSF.
Chest X-ray showed an infiltrate with right lung apex.
With an initial diagnosis of disseminated cryptosis and meningoencephalitis, the patient was treated with liposomal amphotericin B at a dose of 5 mg/kg/day, fluconazole at a dose of 800 mg/day, and lumbar puncture.
A CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed segmental opacity in the vertex of the right lung, solid aspect, with areas of cavitation, homogeneous lung enlargement and retroperitoneal adenomegaly intercavoaortic.
Fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage was performed. Culture of the material obtained showed the development of Cryptococcus neoformans.
Isolation of Cryptococcus neoformans in hemocultives was also obtained by centrifugation lysis technique and by scarification of skin lesions.
Biopsy of the skin lesions with PAS and G staining showed yeasts compatible with histoplasma.
Due to the worsening of asymmetric values, with severe pancitize, puncture bone marrow biopsy was performed, which showed non yeasts compatible with Cryptococcus.
The suspicion of other comorbidities, such as lymphoma, or other opportunistic infections, was carried out the excision of cervical adenomegaly, whose microscopic examination showed replacement of the ganglion histoarchitecture by yeasts.
Culture of the biopsy material allowed the isolation and identification of Cryptococcus neoformans and Histoplasma capsulatum.
The patient presented a favorable evolution from a microbiological point of view, with a decrease in the values of antigenemia and antigenorrhachi and negativization of CSF culture after one month of treatment.
However, signs of endocranean hypertension persisted, refractory to treatment with frequent evacuating lumbar punctures, which led to the placement of a shunt valve of the peritoneal ventricle allowing the normalization of CSF pressure.
Patient started HAART at the sixth week of treatment with good adherence.
Currently, the patient is in good clinical condition, receives antiretroviral treatment, secondary prophylaxis with fluconazole at a dose of 400 mg daily and primary prophylaxis with cotrimoxazole, a double dose tablet three times a week.
