A 53-year-old man was admitted to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (CICU) after recovering from a cardiorespiratory arrest in the public road.
Personal history hypertension treated with enalapril 20 mg. Diabetes mellitus type 2 treated with metformin.
Hyperuricaemia with several gouty arthritis spores
Treatment with allopurinol.
Current illness Witnesses report that while working (cocile) and without referring previous symptoms, it fades with loss of consciousness.
After the initial approach by the witnesses, 112 were contacted, the absence of breathing or signs of life was detected and basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation maneuvers were initiated.
After 7 minutes, after the arrival of Basic Life Support (112) it was detected by means of a rhythmic ASD.
Up to 4 discharges with corresponding cycles of 30:2 are applied together with 2 boluses of propylene and 300 mg of amiodarone.
After the fourth discharge, the patient recovered sinus rhythm at 92 bpm and was admitted to the CICU under analgesia, intubated and connected to mechanical ventilation.
Sedoanalgesia
RASS -4.
Isochoric, myotic and reactive hair.
TA 95/45; HR 125 bpm; Saturation of 100 % O2 peripheral with FiO2 100 %.
Rhythmic cardiac sounds, tachycardic without murmurs.
Gallbladder mucosa was preserved bilaterally.
The abdomen was slightly distended and▁tympanic.
Bowel sounds present
Lower limbs had no edema and bilateral pulses were present and symmetrical.
 EMEA 2004
Troponin I peak: 3 ng/ml.
Urine toxicology: cocaine, amphibians, negative cannabis.
Chest radiography: slight increase in cardiothoracic ratio.
No infiltrates were observed.
Endotracheal tube was centered and normal positioned.
Acquirement: A-B pH 7.34; pO2 427; pCO2 48; HCO3 25.9; lactic 7.6 mmol/l.
Transthoracic echocardiography: left ventricle slightly hypertrophic with segmental▁contractility abnormalities.
Moderately reduced left ventricular systolic function.
Prolonged relaxation of the normal ventricle with normal systolic function.
CT skull: no significant alterations in the density of the cerebral parenchyma.
Normal size and morphology of the ventricular system, with no displacements compared to the midline.
No signs of intracranial bleeding were observed.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging: left ventricle not dilated with moderate left ventricular dysfunction.
Intramyocardial patchy intramyocardial enhancement in the anterior and posterior mid-apical face.
Findings compatible with acute myopathic arthritis.
EVOLUTION The patient is admitted to the CICU and femoral venous access is channeled to perform induced hypothermia for the first 24 hours at 33°C.
The patient remains sedated analgesia and sedation with tendency to bradycardia and hypotension.
Internal root mean was corrected with normalization of lactate and pH.
After 24 hours of hypothermia, progressive rewarming, withdrawal of relaxation, and gradual discontinuation of sedation are started.
At 72 h of admission, the patient presented abnormal movements, such as tachypnea and temperature increase (38°C). An EEG was requested, which ruled out the presence of seizure status.
Antibiotic therapy (ceftriaxone + clindamycin) is intensified after finding right basal infiltrate in radiology, probably related to aspiration during intubation.
We managed to progress from weaning to extubation on day 5.
Cranial CT after extubation showed no abnormalities of interest.
Monitoring in the CICU revealed the presence of ventricular extrasystoles without arrhythmias.
Coronary angiography showed coronary arteries free of significant obstructive lesions.
Once in the hospital ward, asymptomatic rehabilitation is maintained.
The magnetic resonance showed intramyocardial plaque compatible with myocarditis and the left ventricular function was moderately depressed (38
Two weeks after admission, the patient was implanted a unicommodate ICD with no incidence, for secondary prevention of sudden death secondary to cardiomyopathy due to myocarditis.
DIAGNOSIS Recovery of cardiorespiratory arrest.
Aspiratory pneumonia.
Cardiomyopathy secondary to myopathy
