A 47-year-old male patient, ex-smoker and ex-consumer of inhaled toxics, who had been diagnosed with acute HIV infection in 2015 after sexual intercourse at risk, presented a CD50,65466 viral load of 45μl
Antiretroviral treatment and follow-up were initiated, both of which were abandoned on their own initiative.
She was admitted to the emergency room for several weeks of evolution of headache with frontal predominance, difficulty in articulating language and gait instability.
The relatives also commented that they noticed mental retardation, generalized slowing, frequent memory failures, difficulty to relate and behavioral alterations.
He had no fever at home and no clear constitutional condition.
On examination, the patient was conscious, disoriented in time and space, and brachypsychic; well hydrated and perfused, and eupneic at rest.
Vital signs were as follows: BP 100 mmHg, 90 bpm, 18 bpm, SatO2 96% and axillary Ta 38.5oC.
The inspection showed lesions suggestive of oral hairy leukoplakia at the right lateral border of the tongue.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation revealed rhythmic heart sounds without murmurs or audible threads, with good bilateral vesicular murmur without pathological sounds.
The abdomen was blade, depressible, non-painful, without visceromegaly.
There was nothing remarkable at the level of lower limbs.
Neurological examination revealed dysarthria, ineffective, gait lateralization to the left with negative Romberg.
The cranial nerves did not present alterations and the strength and sensitivity were preserved.
Osteotendinous reflexes were present and symmetrical and plantar cutaneous reflex was bilateral flexor.
There was no dysmetria and no meningeal signs.
The laboratory tests performed in the emergency room showed renal function and ̄s normality limits and mild anemia with normocytic normochromic profile with hemoglobin of 11.8 g/dl, without▁lymphopenia and with normal platelets.
The coagulation study was normal.
The chest X-ray and electrocardiogram showed no relevant changes.
On non-contrast-enhanced CT scans performed in the emergency department, multiple lesions were found in both right frontal, parietal lobes, right temporal lobes, left frontoparietal region, and left basal▁ganglia effect.
Once in the plant, basic and hepatic biochemistry was requested, which showed no alterations.
The acute phase reactants were elevated with ESR of 60 mm/h and CRP of 40 mg/dl.
Microbiological studies were requested to confirm HIV infection already known with a viral load of 719,341 copies/ml and a very low CD4 count (1 cell/μl).
Differential diagnosis In the evaluation of brain lesions in patients with HIV infection is essential to know the degree of immunosuppression of the patient.
These lesions are more frequent in severely immunosuppressed patients, with CD4 counts below 200 cells/μl.
In our case, since this was a patient with HIV infection with very severe immunosuppression, the main entities to consider in the differential diagnosis were: Toxoplasma encephalitis, primary lymphoma of the central nervous system (CNSL) multifocal leukoencephalopathy.
We must differentiate fundamentally two types of lesions: lesions that do not enhance after contrast administration and those that enhance the ring after contrast administration.
Among diffuse CNS lesions or those that do not enhance ring after contrast administration, PML and HIV-associated encephalopathy stand out.
These two entities have well-defined image patterns, but in the initial stages, it is difficult to differentiate them and sometimes they can coexist in the same patient with severe immunosuppression.
These lesions usually do not present edema or mass effect.
PML is a progressive demyelinating disease of the CNS caused by reactivation of JC virus in situations of severe immunosuppression (CD4 less than 150 cells/μl).
Patients characteristically present rapidly progressive focal neurological deficits that include hemiparesis, ataxia, aphasia and cognitive impairment.
The CSF examination is normal or with nonspecific alterations, and the diagnosis is confirmed by polymerase chain reaction.
It is characterized by asymmetric bilateral multifocal demyelinating areas, preferentially located in the periventricular areas and the subcortical white matter.
HIV encephalopathy is an exclusion diagnosis.
It typically presents with the classic triad of subacute dementia, depressive symptoms and gait disorder.
In neuroimaging tests, the lesions are usually bilateral and affect mainly the deep white matter and subcortical region, and may also compromise the basal▁ganglia.
CNS infection by cytomegalovirus can progress as progressive encephalopathy or, more commonly, as a meningoencephalitis, and usually appears in a situation of very severe immunosuppression (CDμ4 less than 50 cells/ml).
It may present with delirium, confusion and neurological focality.
Radiologically, it is similar to HIV encephalopathy, with patchy white matter involvement.
A characteristic suboptimal enhancement may occur, although it is rare.
In our case, in favor of this being one of these entities, we should point out the bilateral distribution of the lesions; however, their location, radiological pattern and clinical presentation go against it.
Among the focal brain lesions that enhance the ring after contrast administration are CNS lymphoma and Toxoplasma encephalitis, and the possibility of brain abscesses or other etiologies should also be considered.
These lesions are characterized by a mass effect and associated edema.
CNS lymphoma is the second most common cause of focal brain disease in patients with HIV infection.
It may present as confusion, altered level of consciousness, cognitive impairment, motor focality, aphasia and/or seizures.
In addition, it is frequently associated with general symptoms such as fever, sweating and weight loss, which occur in about 80% of patients.
The lesions are larger, deep, typically periventricular and are usually single.
They may present necrosis and hemorrhage, presenting after contrast administration a wall with thick, heterogeneous and irregular ring enhancement.
Taking these characteristics into account, we should point out the clinical presentation as favorable data for the diagnosis of CNS lymphoma, and on the contrary, the number of lesions, their location, the size of the same symptoms, the radiological pattern and the diagnosis.
Another possibility to consider in the differential diagnosis is brain abscesses.
Intracranial bacterial abscesses are uncommon in HIV-infected patients with severe immunosuppression.
Cerebral abscesses with or without encephalitis or rhomboencephalitis have also been described in patients with CNS infection due to Liss.
The immunosuppression state and the number of lesions (may present as multiple focal lesions) would favor the diagnosis, but the age (usually appear in patients over 60 years), the absence of fever,
Other abscesses are also susceptible to CNS infection, usually preceded by pulmonary infection.
The abscesses can be loculated, individual or multiple.
Contrary to this diagnosis would be the absence of fever and previous respiratory symptoms, as well as the radiological pattern of the lesions.
Regarding CNS infection by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the usual presentation is tuberculous meningitis, with tuberculomas and tuberculous abscesses being rare.
Tuberculous abscesses can be generated from parenchymal tuberculomas or by dissemination of mycobacteria from meningeal foci.
They can be single or multiple.
Tuberculomas usually present as granulomatous lesions, usually multiple, located at the junction of white and▁grey substances.
They can be accompanied by hypercaptation in meninges and enhancement of lesions with radiological contrast.
The enhancement pattern is variable: nodular, ring or irregular.
Diagnosis is based on CSF analysis and culture.
In favor of this entity to point out the immunosuppression state of our patient, and against, the clinic (are presented with the typical clinical triad of fever, headache and alteration of the level of consciousness distribution), the number,
Brain abscesses due to Aspergillus usually present with concurrent lung involvement.
Clinically, patients present very low CD4 counts and develop altered level of consciousness with or without seizures.
The lesions are usually multifocal, with a predilection for the union between white and▁grey substances.
Contrary to this diagnosis would be the radiological pattern of the same and the absence of neutropenia or previous treatment with corticosteroids, cofactors usually necessary for their appearance.
Cryptococcus is the most common cause of meningitis in patients with HIV infection.
Patients may also develop cryptomas, in the form of cystic lesions in the basal▁ganglia.
In our case, the location and radiological pattern of the lesions would go against this diagnosis.
Cerebral toxoplasmosis is the most prevalent neurological disease in patients in advanced stages of HIV infection (CD4 less than 100 cells/μl).
It usually presents with fever, headache, confusion, altered level of consciousness, focal neurological deficit or seizures.
In neuroimaging tests, the lesions are usually multiple, located in the parietal or frontal lobes, basal▁ganglia and cortico-subcortical or periventricular level, and contrast enhancement after administration.
They usually present edema and moderate mass effect.
In our case, given the severe immunosuppression state of our patient, the location and radiological pattern of the lesions, would be the first diagnosis to consider, so it would be necessary to check the Toxoplasma contrast enhancement with these new positive tests.
Cerebral toxoplasmosis was diagnosed in each patient, after the findings and the high suspicion of cerebral toxoplasmosis, empirical folinic acid treatment was initiated later (1.5) every 6 hours) and pyridosis (100 mg daily) on the first day, followed by dexamethasone 75 mg
Among the microbiological studies requested, the presence of IgG positive for Toxoplasma stood out.
Other studies were negative (loes serology and cytomegalovirus, as well as determination of cryptococcal antigen in serum).
Emergency hemoculptives were also negative.
Contrast-enhanced cranial MRI showed multiple lesions of different sizes, supratentorial location, involving basal▁ganglia and cortico-subcortical junction, with low peripheral edema intensity signal that initially detected peripheral toxoplasmosis centrally in T2-positive contrast.
These lesions and the surrounding edema provoked a mass effect with displacement of the midline of 5 mm.
These findings were maintained with the tape measure and pyrimidine was gradually reduced until dexamethasone was discontinued.
Antiretroviral therapy with abacavir, lamivudine and dolutegravir was initiated prior to discharge.
The patient was seen in the Infectious Diseases outpatient clinic two weeks after discharge, presenting clinical improvement data and▁tolerating the medication well.
Final diagnosis Cerebral toxoplasmosis in patient with advanced HIV infection.
