Anamnesis A 48-year-old male patient with a history of recurrent renal colic (with right genital lithiasis, with no evolution of oxalate and ibuprofen) presented with clear improvement, who came to the emergency room.
He did not report any fever, voiding syndrome or hematuria.
Attention is paid to an important asthenical habit, general weakness, difficulty in moving from sitting to standing, myalgia and generalized arthralgias.
In February 2013, he came to his primary care physician for a low back pain clinic, and was referred to the Traumatology consultation, without findings; the examination showed a right thyroid nodule of approximately 2 cm neck in the current lateral face.
Physical reaction Patient general condition, visibly weak, with correct hydration of skin and mucosa, wide abdomen to faces, significant adipose panniculus, does not present good pain in flaccid peritoneal mass or organomegaly.
▁Right renal percussion and right Guyon's sign were positive.
Lower extremities without edema.
The rest of the examination did not reveal any relevant findings.
▁Complementary tests • Analytical tests: calcemia of 16.5 mg/dl, phosphorus of mg/dl, intact PTH 2,574 pg/ml, creatinine clearance of 20 ml/dl and alkaline phosphatase/min.
I'm back without findings.
• Blood count: hemoglobin 9.5 g/dl.
Catheterization 28%.
• Coagulation without alterations.
• Urine sediment 1-5 leukocytes per field.
• Abdominal radiograph: nephrocalcin, pelvic skeleton level reveals irregular surface of the sacroiliac joints due to resorption and iliac crest bone disease and enlargement of the iliac joint space.
Subchondral resorption in the right margin of pubic▁symphysis.
• Bone series: given the previous findings, the diagnostic radiology service considers the possibility of completing the study with a skull x-ray and a changes, in the first one, and there is evidence of a skull with a "saline" appearance of diffuse brown and pembrown diffuse pemphigus in the first appearance in the first one;
• Urological ultrasound: bilateral renal nephrocalcinosis without ectasia of the excretory pathway; a small 12 mm cyst is found in the upper left renal polar.
I'm back without interesting findings.
• Neck ultrasound: adjacent to the right thyroid lobe, a hypoechoic nodular lesion with cystic/degenerated areas is identified, in its interior compatible with parathyroid adenoma.
It presents approximate measurements of 39 x 25.2 x 47 mm (T x AP x L).
On the left side, another inferomedian nodule is identified with respect to the left thyroid lobe, hypoechoic suggestive of left parathyroid adenoma, with approximate measurements of 37 x 12.6 x 16.2 mm AP.
Thyroid gland of normal size and morphology with preserved echogenicity.
At least two nodules were identified in the DTT of 7.8 and 12 x 7.4 mm, respectively.
This is compatible, given the location and context, with right and left parathyroid adenomas.
• SPECT/CT cervicomediastinal: in the early planar image two foci of increased 99mTc-MIBI uptake are observed: a focus at the level of the upper pole of the right thyroid lobe and another focus at the late thyroid lobe
In the low-dose SPECT-CT fusion image, the largest focus is located outside the hyoid bone (right side) and the smallest focus is located in the left paratracheal region below and posterior to the lobe.
• Bone mineral densitometry: on the neck of the Z-score –2.1 DE.
Lumbar Z-score –2.9 SD.
Diagnosis Primary hyperparathyroidism due to double parathyroid adenoma.
Chronic renal failure secondary to nephrocalcinosis.
Treatment The patient presented favorable renal colic with intravenous analgesia, not requiring urinary diversion.
Hydration was established by intravenous serum therapy, as well as administration of abundant ionic acid, cinacalcet, oral calcium and darbepoetin alfa.
After clinical stabilization of the patient, reaching calcemia of 8.3 mg/dl and intact PTH of 53.3 pg/ml, parathyroidectomy is programmed, which is performed without incidence of intraoperative PTH, observing a decrease.
He is currently waiting to be discharged from the General Surgery Department, as well as follow-up in Endocrinology clinics, after normalization of PTH and serum calcium.
