A 33-year-old male patient with a history of Henoch-Schönlein purpura at 16 years of age and left arm plejia, who underwent traumatic brachial plexus injury at 19 years of age, was admitted.
The patient had a good immediate outcome after surgery and was discharged with a descending dexamethasone regimen.
One month later, she was readmitted to the Neurosurgery Department due to fever of one week of evolution of up to 38.5o, pain in the surgical area and fluctuating collection in the scar area, without presenting meningeal wound.
In the physical examination, only the limitation of mandatory mental health screening is noteworthy.
Upon admission, previous treatment with corticosteroids was suspended, a complete general analytical was performed which was normal, with 7,500 leukocytes (60% neutrophils), C-reactive protein 5.6 mg/l and procalcitonin 0.28 mg/ml cerebrospinal fluid CSF analysis showed 220 lymphocytes.
Treatment was initiated with meropenem (2 g. iv/8 h) and linezolid (600 mg. iv/12 h).
Cranial Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is also performed, which shows isointense collection around the craniotomy area and in a craniocervical charnela, which associates vertebral enhancement lepto.
Puncture of the collection was performed, which turned out to be CSF.
CSF culture was negative.
She underwent 14 days of antibiotic treatment, during which the patient remained afflicted and asymptomatic.
Follow-up lumbar puncture was performed at the end of treatment with the following results: 40 leukocytes, proteins 93 mg/dl and glucose 1.3 mg/dl.
It's at this moment when the case comes to us.
Differential diagnosis We are faced with a case of meningitis related to health care, being the main "guideline data" available, the patient's hypoglycorrhachia.
The main causes of hypoglycorrhachia are: 1.
Infection: bacteria (in principle, a CSF glucose lower than 18mg/dl is suggestive of Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseriadis or Libya bacterial meningitis, highly mycobacterial herpesvirus, meningitis septate).
2.
Carmatosis Meninggea
3.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage.
4.
Sarcoidosis with central nervous system involvement: it occurs in 5-25% of patients with systemic involvement, and the most common MRI findings are leptomeningeal enhancement due to primary leptomeningeal granulomatous colitis.
The presence of single or multiple intraaxial masses secondary to the dissemination of granulomatous disease is less frequent.
5.
The CSF cytology was negative for cells.
There were no data on CSF or MRI bleeding, nor focal lesions at the parenchymal or meninges level, so that sarcoidosis hypoglucoric and subarachnoid hemorrhage, as well as▁sarcoglucoric causes, seem unlikely.
On the other hand, no cases of hypoglycorrhachia secondary to linezolid or meropenem treatment have been reported to date.
The CSF was analyzed in different equipments, and the technique of dilutions was performed, confirming the data of hypoglycorrhachia and ruling out the analytical interference.
Therefore, the main etiology to be ruled out was infectious.
Postoperative meningitis is a rare complication (0.3-1.5%), although of undoubted clinical significance.
The differential diagnosis made us rule out postsurgical aseptic meningitis, given the hypoglucorrhachia and hyperproteinorrhachia.
Epidemiologically, the main etiological agents of bacterial meningitis after surgery or penetrating brain injury are staphylococci and facultative aerobic gram-negative bacilli (including Pseudomonas aeruginosa).
In patients with permanent device placement (e. g. a ventriculoperitoneal shunt), infections are caused mainly by germs present in the skin, such as Propionibacterium acnes.
Our patient would be included in the first risk group.
However, these germs usually produce infection in the immediate postoperative period and are accompanied by clinical severity of the patient and marked elevation of acute phase reactants, unlike our patient, which is why we thought it was less common to treat another germ.
Ev since admission, the patient has suffered from constipation, presenting only mild neck pain, without elevation of acute phase reactants at any time.
He surprised the patient's good general condition throughout his hospitalization: he is smoking a cigarette on the street when we are going to visit him.
After clinical reassessment of the patient, and in the absence of any discrepancy between the clinical findings and laboratory tests, we performed a new lumbar puncture, which confirmed hypoglycorrhachia, elevated protein and lactate.
Gram stain showed no microorganisms, but smear microscopy detected bacilli resistant acid, and Mycobacterium tuberculosis was negative by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (GeneXpert MTB/RIF).
We decided to start treatment with suspicion of nontuberculous mycobacterial infection, with amikacin 1g/day i.m., levofloxacin 500 mg/day v.o.
clarithromycin 500 mg q12h.o.
The patient remains afflicted with improvement of the initial symptoms.
Treatment with amikacin i.m.
levofloxacin was discontinued one month after 46 days of treatment due to a negative antibiotic tendinitis clinic. The patient was discharged with bilateral intolerance (not confirmed by microbiological examination, but resolved after discontinuation of the antibiotic treatment).
Final diagnosis Postsurgical meningitis due to mycobacterial infection, probably of rapid growth.
