We report the case of a 57-year-old male, active smoker, with a history of mild chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with glycopyrronium bromide.
He came to the emergency room due to paresthesias and impossibility of walking for 48 hours.
The previous days she had presented vomiting, diarrhea with verdosa up to 18 stools per day, fever of 38oC and general▁malaise after egg intake.
On arrival to the emergency department, the patient had blood pressure of 181/118 mmHg, heart rate of 118 bpm, and temperature of 35.4oC.
Physical examination revealed peripheral hypoperfusion in both lower limbs, with livedo reticularis to the pelvis.
Analytically, hemoglobin 15 mg/dl, leukocytes 5.9 10.70×103/l, creatinine 2.45 mg/dl, creatine kinase 20,000 U/L, sodium 140 mEq/l, potassium acid 98 5.515 mmHg
The suspicion of acute arterial ischemia was confirmed by abdominal computed tomography (CT) with contrast which showed aneurysmal dilatation and complete thrombosis of the infrarenal abdominal aorta.
She underwent emergency surgery by right axillobifemoral bypass.
Low molecular weight heparin was initiated as well as empirical antibiotic therapy with meropenem and vancomycin for persistent fever.
After 5 days of admission, multisensitive Salmonella group D was isolated in hemocultives, only resistant to quinolones, so ceftriaxone was discarded a total of 8 weeks daily.
Despite antibiotic therapy, feverish peaks daily occur.
After ruling out other sources of alternative infection, there was a high suspicion of infection of the endovascular stent graft.
For this reason, a positron emission computed tomography with fluorodeoxyglucose or PET (18F-FDG)-CT was performed, which showed nonspecific inflammatory activity throughout the bypass, especially in the thoracic tract.
Finally, a scintigraphy study was performed with autologous leukocytes labeled with HMPAO-Tc99m, which finally ruled out bypass infection.
After a prolonged hospital stay of two months of duration, the patient developed numerous complications, with negative control hemocultives, and was able to enter his daily activity without incidents, although with the help of rehabilitation treatment.
