The patient, a 43-year-old man, came to our hospital with fever of five days of evolution along with pain in the right hemiabdomen.
She had no relevant medical history, and had only been admitted once before due to a perianal fistula.
He did not undergo treatment in a usual way or had known drug allergies.
He had a daily smoking habit, but did not consume alcohol or other toxic substances.
He had no pets and recently denied exposure to animals.
She did not report risky sexual activities either.
The patient worked as an agronomist engineer, making frequent trips abroad for work reasons.
The picture began on the return flight after a trip to California, where it had been installed for three days.
During his stay the patient had slept in a hotel, without contact with animals or known insect bites; he had not consumed raw products either.
On that flight he began with fever of up to 39oC, sweating, chills and intermittent pain in the right hemiabdomen.
She did not report any urinary or respiratory symptoms at that time, although she had dark urine color.
Once returned to Spain, the patient came to the emergency room of our center for persistent fever, but upon a normal physical examination and after improvement with symptomatic treatment, was discharged.
However, two days later, since the fever did not remit, she went back to the Infectious Diseases Department for study.
At that time, the patient was in good general condition, with a temperature of 38oC and normal vital signs.
The physical examination revealed irritable bowel syndrome, with pain due to epigastric pain and hemiabdomen, with positive peritoneal Blumberg and Murphy signs.
He had a small wound with no signs of overinfection in his right hand, which he reported had been caused by a strawberry plant fifteen days before.
At the analytical level, electrolytes, calcium, creatinine, glucose and urea levels were normal.
The complete blood count revealed▁lymphopenia of 250 x103 cells/μL and a pattern of stasis with total bilirubin of 2.59 mg/dl, AST of 71.50 U/L, ALT of 734.24 mg/dl
A plain abdominal X-ray showed no remarkable alterations.
Differential diagnosis.
A patient with fever and abdominal pain after a recent trip, the diagnostic process will consider, on the one hand, whether the infection is related or not to the journey itself, as well as the common causes of infection that have a worldwide distribution in developed countries.
At the beginning of the diagnostic process, the severity of the condition, which will determine the need for hospitalization, as well as the possible risk of transmission, should be assessed.
It is important to highlight that there are other non-infectious diseases that can also be accompanied by fever, such as thromboflebitis or pulmonary embolism in the "Turist Class Syndrome", or drug-induced fever.
Therefore, in this case, within the differential diagnosis of a patient with fever and acute onset abdominal pain, "common" or unrelated causes to travel should be ruled out, considering acute liver disease, biliary abscess or bile ducts as colitis.
Other gastrointestinal diseases should be ruled out: acute colitis, acute diverticulitis and ischemic colitis.
The presence of a possible intra-abdominal abscess with secondary peritonitis should also be considered.
However, taking into account the epidemiological history of the trip, which was not carried out in a developing country and the short period of time there was a recent diagnosis of dengue fever and other abdominal diseases, such as fever and fever tripod fever.
The risk of these diseases shall be determined by the traveller's place of origin and the time taken for them to be closed.
In the case of our patient, the origin of California does not constitute a risk zone for these diseases.
If the patient had consumed non-potable water or raw foods, it would be necessary to rule out infections by enterobacteria such as Salmonella spp.
or parasitic, although not present: ̄s (Ascaris spp., Trichinella spp., Taenia solium...) and protozoa (Toxoplasma, Entamoeba histolytica)
It would also be necessary to consider the diagnosis of listeriosis and salmonellosis, more likely in case of consumption of unpasteurized dairy products.
In principle, our patient had denied the intake of raw foods or non-potable water.
Finally, although the patient did not report contact with animals the origin of a rural and forestry area should raise in the differential diagnosis entities such as brucellosis, tularemia and plague, among others.
Intravenous medication was prescribed at admission and hemocultives were extracted. Treatment was initiated with ceftriaxone 1 gram (iv) daily, 500 mg intravenous ceftriaxone every 8 hours and 12 hours oral administration 100 mg IV.
Serology against Rickettsia spp., Coxiella spp.
(ELISA), as well as▁Cytomegalovirus (CMV), hepatitis A and B, the Epstein&#146;s (VEB) virus, all of which were negative.
Abdominal non-contrast computerized tomography (CT) was performed (abdomen CT without contrast: presence of gas in the portal venous system and stenosis of approximately 17 cm in diameter, with two nodular images hypodense 1 and 1.5 cm.
), which showed gas in the portal venous system, affecting almost the entire left liver lobe, part of the right, as well as some mesenteric vessels, a finding that could be related to pileflebitis.
In addition, a 17 cm diameter stenosis was observed, with two nonspecific nodular images of approximately 1 cm and 1.5 cm, respectively, which could correspond to two abscesses.
A tubular image with thickening of the wall and increased density was evident in hypogastrium, which was reported as a probable diverticulum Meckel.
After 24 hours the patient's clinical condition worsened, with persistent fever, abdominal pain and elevated inflammatory parameters.
For this reason, general surgeons evaluated emergency surgical intervention.
It was decided to perform exploratory laparoscopy, finding purulent free fluid in both subphrenic spaces and Douglas, with an image of an intimate diverticulum of about 30 cm in length in the proximity of the ileocecal wall.
It was decided to perform ileal resection (extraction of the piece to perform the extracorporeal anastomosis, appreciating the doubled and inflamed intestinal segment) including the inflamed intestinal segment with laterolateral anastomosis through laparoscopic approach.
No splenic alterations were observed.
Intraoperative cultures were all negative and biopsy of the surgical specimen showed an important inflammatory, ulcerative and congestive condition of a small bowel segment in relation to intestinal duplication.
After surgery the patient was stable with improvement of inflammatory parameters.
Treatment with ceftriaxone and metronidazole was discontinued at the same doses for another two weeks.
The patient experienced a complicated postoperative period with paralytic ileus and appearance of enterocutaneous fistula, which subsequently resolved.
After four weeks of admission, the patient was discharged, being reviewed at two weeks in outpatient clinics, with good general condition and normal analytical control.
Final diagnosis Portal pneumatosis and pileflebitis secondary to inflammation of intestinal duplication.
