Anamnesis A 46-year-old woman with no cardiovascular risk factors receiving escitalopram for dysthymia.
Eight years ago she was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) due to persistent paraesthesia in both upper limbs with demyelinating lesions in the cervical medulla as a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) finding.
During the 5 years after the diagnosis of the disease the patient suffered several sensory sprouts and in the following 2 years three motor sprouts with progressive worsening of disability (two points increase in the EDSS scale in 6 months).
With the diagnosis of secondarily progressive relapsing-remitting MS and with a score of 4 on the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), treatment with intravenous natalizumab was started, with a good clinical response monthly.
After 27 sessions of treatment with the monoclonal antibody and with a disability of 3 in the EDSS scale, the patient begins with a progressive picture of a month of evolution of alteration in the emission of language with a sudden worsening of the long term with a variable course.
Physical examination revealed mental retardation, mental retardation and normal somatic exploration.
Neurological examination revealed a normal level of consciousness, with slight persistence and severe dysnomia.
He doesn't understand orders.
Make short words and phrases of no more than three words.
▁Right-sided pareto-spastic gait with right lower limb circumduction.
Unchangeable variants and thunder.
Romberg.
Strength in the lower limbs distal 3/5 and proximal 4-/5 and upper limbs 4/5.
Ashworth's grade II deformity of the lower limbs.
Reflexure of exhaled muscle stretching with increased area of dominance in the right limbs.
Cutaneous-plantar extensor bell with inexhaustible achilles clonus and bilateral Hoffmann present.
Non-evaluable ocular movements. Follow-up eye movements in the form of saccades.
Hemianopsia constriction right (difficult evaluation by linguistic alteration).
Eye fundus: bilateral papillary stenosis.
Normal rectum.
▁Complementary tests • Blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, biochemical (including calcium and phosphorus), coagulation and proteinogram: normal.
• Serum albumin 40.20 mg/dl, serum IgG 1.46 mg/dl.
• Autoimmunity: negative antinuclear antibodies.
• Serology: you are negative.
Hepatitis B and C virus negative.
Human immunodeficiency virus negative.
• Serology for JC virus in positive blood
• Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF): clear appearance.
Leukocytes 0/mm3, leukocytes 0/mm3.
Glucose 67 mg/dl, protein 21 mg/dl, lactic acid 1.4 mmol/l, albumin 10.2 mg/dl.
IgG 1.46 mg/dl.
Culture: negative.
• Link Index: 0.68 (IgG CSF x albumin serum/IgG serum x albumin CSF).
• Electrocardiogram and chest X-ray: normal.
• Electroencephalogram: focus of slow activity in the left temporal region.
MRI: white matter lesions in the periventricular area, left internal capsule and subcortical white matter suggestive of known demyelinating disease type EM.
Extensive changes in signal intensity were seen in the left subcortical parietal-occipital white matter in T2 and FLAIR sequences, with no significant mass effect and no enhancement after intravenous contrast.
Magnetic resonance imaging with a hyperintense lesion in the left parietooccipital white matter compatible with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and digitiform lesions in the ventricular major axis compatible with multiple perpendicular and perpendicular.
• Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in CSF for JC virus positive (234 copies/ml).
Diagnosis • Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) due to JC virus in a patient treated with natalizumab, with no history of immunomodulatory treatment.
• Kurtzke EDSS stage 4 R-R MS.
Treatment and outcome Treatment with natalizumab was discontinued from the onset of the clinical picture of speech disorder.
Three plasmapheresis were performed followed by a 625 mg dose of 6-methylprednisolone orally for 3 days, with progressive decrease (prevention of▁Reconstitution Syndrome).
Two hundred and fifty mg of mefloquine per day were associated with this treatment for one week, followed by this dose one day a week.
She was also treated with 45 mg/day of mimicrypine.
Two weeks later, the patient suffered sudden clinical movements of the left hemisphere with a predominance of the mandible, with blinking, sialorrhea and sweating with subsequent episodes during a quarter to 3 minutes, "against a background".
After the third episode, treatment with levetiracetam was initiated up to a dose of 500 mg/12 h. On real neurological examination, worsening of the strength in the right hemibody was observed with greater difficulty walking.
The force had worsened in the right limbs with distal plegic right upper limb and a proximal grade 2/5.
A second MRI showed progression of the lesions, covering the parietal, occipital and temporal areas of the contralateral hemisphere.
Extensive hyperintense white matter lesion in the temporoparieto-occipital region of the left hemisphere and occipital region of the right hemisphere consistent with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy progression.
Cidofovir treatment was started at a dose of 5 mg/kg with the hydration and probenecid protocol, weekly for three weeks and then twice a week.
In the last examination, the patient had improved paresis in the right lower limb, with adequate control of the▁epileptic seizures.
