Anamnesis A 39-year-old male was studied for a 2-month clinical picture of diarrhea, asthenia and weight loss of 10 kg. Anamnesis revealed hypochromic microcytic anemia.
The medical history included a moderate alcohol consumption of 10 years of evolution, smoking 20 packs/year, sporadic consumption of marijuana and hachís, a depressive syndrome and two episodes of abstinence syndrome studied
He presented meningitis at 12 years of age, without sequelae.
Family history of father and uncle with colon neoplasia.
The patient had a history of intestinal parasitosis and▁cryotherapy for condyloma acuminatum in the balanopreputial groove in June 2010, with negative serology for STD.
She was being treated with lorazepam 1 mg at night and pizotifen 0.5 mg three times a day.
Physical location: Delgadez, mucocutaneous rigor.
Aware and oriented, with no evidence of neurological focus.
Normal features.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal.
The abdomen was blandom and depressible, with hepatomegaly of 3-4, partially painful fingers, with no signs of peritoneal irritation.
The rectal examination revealed a well-defined, non-painful prostate.
Lower limbs without edema, with peripheral pulses present.
Papullacea in sacrolumbar spines
▁Complementary tests • Highlighting blood tests: creatinine 0.6 mg/dl, hemoglobin 8.6 g/dl, 16,700 leukocytes/mm3, total bilirubin 0.17 mg/dl, glutamate-pyruvate-transamine.
• Chest X-ray: no abnormalities.
• Serology for hepatitis B and C viruses and negative human immunodeficiency virus.
• Low digestive endoscopy: an excrecent mass covering the entire circumference of the ascending colon is observed, without allowing the passage of the digestive tract practically.
Biopsy revealed moderately differentiated ulcerated adenocarcinoma.
• CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis: changes in emphysema without lesions suggestive of metastasis, without mediastinal lymphadenopathy of significant size.
Tumor located in the cecum and right colon (10 cm long) with areas of necrosis associated with hypoaesthesia within the cecum.
Ulceration of it.
Pericolonic fat alteration with lymphadenopathies of significant size.
In the lower left renal pole there is a fat mass of approximately 34 x 38 x 49 mm with loss of corticomedullary differentiation, without perirenal alteration or locoregional adenopathies.
Liver, pancreas, spleen, adrenals and right kidney without lesions.
No retroperitoneal or inguinal lymphadenopathy of significant size.
For better characterization, the following tests were performed.
• Uro-TC: confirms the existence of a tumour with growth retardation affecting the lower pole of the left kidney, affecting the lower kidney callus group.
Adenopathies in renal hilium.
• Urinary cytology (left ureter): suspect of low-grade papillary urothelial carcinoma.
Diagnosis of the results of the different tests was diagnosed: •▁Right colon tumor stage T4N2M0.
• Tumor in the lower pole of the left kidney with growth plate probably related to urinary tract tumor T3N2M0.
Treatment A right colectomy was performed in the first time by laparotomy with laterolateral anastomosis (occurrence of adenocarcinoma) whose pathological anatomy was moderately differentiated with partial mucinous differentiation: pT3N1.
One month later, left nephroureterectomy was performed, with poorly differentiated transitional cell carcinoma pathological anatomy, with solid, affecting the renal pelvis and extending to the middle and lower poles, with laparoscopic extension.
Massive thrombotic infiltrate in the renal vein and small intraparenchymal vessels, with border of resection of renal vein by tumor, was staged as pT3.
right ventricular septal defect associated with post-operative nephroureterectomy showed left hemiparesis and foreign behavior characterized by physical and verbal disinhibition, so a CT scan of the brain showed a solitary herniation
The patient was referred to the referral center for surgical intervention of the metastasis.
The▁immunohistochemical study of surgical specimens (colectomy and nephroureterectomy) showed loss of expression of MLH-1, with partial expression of MSH-2 and MSH-6.
The▁immunohistochemical pattern of the urothelial tumor showed a phenotypic negative phenotype pattern: CK7–, CK20–, CDX2+, with high proliferative activity (Ki-67 70%), without neuroendocrine differentiation.
Similarly, microscopic analysis of brain injury was compatible with metastasis of undifferentiated carcinoma of intestinal origin (CK7–, CK 20+).
Thanks to the Bethes criteria and▁immunohistochemical study, we were able to arrive at the definitive diagnosis of Lynch syndrome.
