MARH.
A 13-year-old male patient, born in the state of San Luis Potosí, resident in the neighborhood Rancho Nuevo, municipality of San Antonio, in the same state.
It was presented at the health center accompanied by her mother, where the medical staff requested an interconsultation for the diagnosis.
The interview was conducted directly and indirectly through interviews with the mother.
The current illness started six days before by the bite of the transmitting insect, the next day she presented unquantified fever, headache, right bipalpebral edema and right preauricular adenitis.
On the same day, the epidemiological clinical study was carried out with clinical history, evaluation of the house and sampling for the parasitic and serological diagnosis.
The personal history was not pathological and pathological, without importance for the current illness.
He has a history of epidemiological importance related to the knowledge of the transmitting insect and its bite, he mentions that he knows them as a chinche.
Other important antecedents are the capture of 30 insects inside the house, of which three were positive to Trypanosoma cruzi infection and the characteristics of the house with bad construction materials considered risk for the presence of the transmitter roof plate (healthy).
The transfusion history was negative.
On physical examination, the most relevant data were the Romaña’s right eye sign with pigmentation and right preauricular adenomegaly.
No hepatomegaly; lower limbs without edema.
Parasitological diagnosis was confirmed by the Parasite Biology Laboratory by observing smears and thick smears. Serology was negative with indirect ELISA (0.021 D.O.)
e IFI.
The diagnosis is confirmed and blood biometry, general urine test and functioning are requested prior to treatment. Normal results were obtained due to the treatment initiated under the jurisdiction of the physician, with doses of episodic medication administered at doses of 30 mgkg per day.
The asymptomatic patient is in apparent good health.
