A 59-year-old woman, with hypertension, dyslipidemia and a history of smoking cessation due to dental infection eight months before, was treated.
She was admitted to Internal Medicine due to fever and pancit, fever being explained by urinary tract infection caused by Proteus mirabilis, with ciprofloxacin being paid at discharge and performing an outpatient bone marrow biopsy for study of pancatheter.
On the sixth day after discharge, the patient came to the emergency department for skin rash and reappearance of fever (39.3oC).
The differential diagnosis of fever and rash is made, and after one week with broad-spectrum antibiotics and absence of microbiological isolates, infectious causes are ruled out and pharmacological drug addiction is diagnosed, starting with a good corticosteroid treatment.
Bone marrow biopsy showed non-necrotizing epithelioid granulomas, dysplastic scrapes and SRSF2 gene mutation (frequencies of myelodysplastic syndromes and chronic myelodysplastic syndromes).
During admission, a computed tomography (CT) was performed, showing hyliomediastinal lymphadenopathies, without other alterations, which led to ruling out sarcoidosis, but also▁lymphoproliferative syndrome and tuberculosis infection.
Highlights the elevation of angiotensin-converting enzyme.
The patient refused▁bronchoscopy to complete the study and was discharged.
Ambulatory Mycobacterium avium complex is isolated in hemocultives, so treatment with clarithromycin and etambu bag is initiated.
Seven days later, the patient presented cough, expectoration and fever, and a chest X-ray showed ground-glass opacity with diffuse and bilateral involvement.
Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed, revealing positive PCR for cystic paracystis jiroveci, with trimethoprim-prim-samentoxazol being administered.
During this admission, the patient also presented infection with influenza A virus treated with oseltamivir.
After presenting a new episode of drug eruption, which in this case is related to trimethoprim-selecttoxazol treatment, atovacuone is replaced.
Two opportunistic infections were diagnosed, the possible causes were diagnosed and the laboratory tests revealed an absolute mycobacterium monocytic syndrome one year earlier. The GATA-2 gene was studied, which was mutated, being monomycobacterium.
