Natural patient from Morocco, who has been living in Spain for three years.
Independent for basic activities of daily living.
No known drug allergies, toxic habits or cardiovascular risk factors.
It was diagnosed in November 2017 of common Acute B Lymphoid Leukemia, starting treatment with PETHEMA-LAL/AR protocol achieving complete remission and minimal residual negative disease after induction, without relevant complications.
Subsequently, he received consolidation treatment without incidents, performing bone marrow aspirate in September 2018 where 7.8% of cells similar to the blasts of the diagnosis were observed, so he was admitted to receive a new induction scheme.
Upon admission, the patient was hemodynamically stable, afflicted, with acceptable general condition, conscious and oriented, eupneic at rest, well hydrated and perfused.
Rhythmic tones without audible murmurs and preserved vesicular murmur.
The abdomen was blushing and depressible, with no organomegaly or signs of peritoneal irritation.
Lower limbs were unchanged.
On day +3 of the cycle begins with fever without apparent focus, for which empirical antibiotic therapy with cefepime and vancomycin is initiated after extraction of blood cultures.
During this period she began receiving chemotherapy treatment due to pancit secondary to multiple transfusions of erythrocytes and platelets together with colony stimulating factor.
prophylaxis regimen little improvement of fever and increased acute phase reactants, on day +13 treatment is changed to meropenem 1g every 8 hours, vancomycin 1g every 12 hours, along with posaconazole and viremia.
On day +6 of the induction cycle, crusted vesicles grouped in the right breast with nodular base, along with later appearance of erythematous blisters in the right thigh and necrosis of the left shoulder, began to appear.
Differential diagnosis We propose the differential diagnosis of febrile syndrome with skin lesions in patients with onchohematologic pathology, either by an infectious or non-infectious process (such as its underlying pathology, graft versus host disease, pharmacological).
The type of skin lesions can guide us to the etiology of the lesions.
Thus, in ulcerative lesions we would think about bacteria, mycobacteria and viruses, while in vesicular lesions we would think about viral etiology.
Cutaneous nodules should be considered as a cause of nontuberculous mycobacterial infections.
Another entity to take into account would be the ecchymosis caused mainly by Pseudomonas spp.
Not to forget that in the presence of lesions with necrotic center in this profile of patients we should raise invasive fungal infections by microorganisms such as Aspergillus spp., Mucorales and other emerging species such as Fusarium spp.
scedosporium spp.
The type of immunosuppression of the patient can also guide the etiology, distinguishing between cellular or humoral immunosuppression, neutropenia (immunosuppression in our patient) or the use of monoclonal antibodies or purine analogues.
Within each etiologic group, we must raise: • Bacteria: in addition to the microorganisms that usually colonize the skin, such as staphylococci and streptococcus, Steomyces spp., Brutrophomc.
Nontuberculosis
• Viruses: discard▁Cytomegalovirus, Epstein-acquired virus, herpes simplex 1 and 2, herpes varicella-zoster virus.
• Fungi: Candida spp.
and Aspergillus spp.
Most of the fungi that produce this type of lesions, although there are microorganisms such as Mucorales, Fusarium spp.
and Scedosporium spp., emerging clusters that should be included in our differential diagnosis.
• Mycobacteria: some of the most common species would be M. avium, M. kansasii, M. xenopi or M. haemophilum.
Despite extensive empirical broad-spectrum treatment, the patient continues to have fever and an increase in acute phase reactants, in a situation of severe panic disorder with absolute neutropenia from day +6 of treatment.
It was decided to perform skin biopsy for pathological anatomy and microbiology together with new blood collection.
In consecutive days, pending microbiological results, the patient begins to deteriorate clinically, extending treatment on day 22 of induction to meropenem 2g every 8 hours, linezolid 600 mg every 12 hours Bsomal amphotericin B
There is little improvement in general condition, with appearance of visual disturbances with subconjunctival bleeding.
Different complementary tests are requested: • Blood analysis with progressive worsening: hemoglobin 7.5 g/dL, 13,000 platelets, 10 neutrophils, creatinine 1.3 mg/dL, albumin 1.8 g/dL, PCR VHS 300 CMV U/L
• Induction of auramine, culture of Actinomyces spp., Brucella spp.
Non-species
negative.
• Chest X-ray with no significant findings.
The suspicion of cutaneous septic emboli was made by echocardiography and abdominal ultrasound, without significant alterations.
Finally, Fusarium solani was isolated in both hemocultive and cutaneous biopsy cultures, fungigrams were isolated, antifungal suspension was suspended and added to the culture of the load cycle mg given during the 24-hour period with maintenance of antifungal medication.
Finally, on the third day of onset of itraconazole, despite improvement in skin lesions, he suffered septic shock with respiratory failure with bilateral pulmonary infiltrates, causing the death of the patient on day +29 of treatment.
Final diagnosis Disseminated Fusariosis with septic cutaneous, pulmonary and probably ocular metastases.
Acute▁lymphocytic leukemia B relapsed during induction therapy.
