Personal history A 45-year-old woman, born in Lithuania, who had been a strawberry worker in Spain for five months.
Smoker of ten cigarettes a day.
The patient was initially diagnosed with tuberculosis in Lithuania and treated for four years.
Left lower lobectomy was performed in 2001.
Initially, no reports or other sources were available to verify and expand the information.
But stricture was diagnosed for four of them. She was initially diagnosed with tuberculosis in 1995 and started treatment with five drugs (rifampicin, years old), isoniazid, pyrazinamide and poor evolution.
In 1999, antibiotic regimen was changed to ofloxacin, cycloserine and amikacin.
In 2001, left lower lobectomy was performed, continuing after the intervention with ofloxacin and cycloserine for another year.
There was no other relevant background.
Current disease since December 2004, presented cough with mucopurulent expectoration and fever syndrome with a predominance of evening sweats accompanied by profuse sweating and unquantified weight loss.
Antibiotic treatment was given without improvement.
Later he came to the emergency service of Juan Ramón Jiménez Hospital in February 2005, derived from his health center.
Physical examination The patient was conscious, oriented and cooperative, with good general condition, well hydrated and perfused.
Eupneic at rest.
The weight was 49.5 kg.
Arterial oxygen saturation was 99% (FiO2 0.21), blood pressure 127/74 mmHg and temperature 40.5oC.
There were no palpable lymph nodes.
On auscultation, the cardiac tones were rhythmic without murmurs, and vesicular murmur was preserved in the right hemithorax and decreased in the left middle third with a upper left murmur in the upper left.
The abdomen was blade, depressible, without masses or enlargements, and in the lower limbs there were no signs of deep venous thrombosis.
Peripheral pulses were full and symmetrical and neurological examination was normal.
▁Complementary leukocytes were normal in the blood count, red blood cell count was 15.900/μL (86% neutrophils, 6.8% lymphocytes), and platelet count was 775,000/μL.
Biochemistry showed: blood glucose 132 mg/dL, creatinine 0.61 mg/dL, urea 11 mg/dL, total proteins 5.8 g/dL and ESR 113 mm/h.
The rest did not present significant alterations.
HIV serology was negative.
The chest X-ray showed an image of increased density in the left hemithorax with areas of basal aeration and left vertex, with marked ipsilateral volume loss.
There was traction of mediastinal structures to the left hemifield and suture in the stump of the left lower lobe.
Fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy showed inflammatory signs in the left upper lobe with edematous mucosa and stenosis of the segmental bronchi with purulent material inside.
The bronchial suture stump in the left lower lobe bronchus formed a species of bag background and a rounded formation suggestive of granuloma was observed.
Diagnostic test Baciloscopy of bronchoaspirate and sputum: abundant acid-fast resistant bacilli are observed.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis was isolated in culture.
Clinical judgement Active pulmonary tuberculosis (relapse).
Lopinavir was started with ceftriaxone 2 g/d and clarithromycin 500 mg/d. After receiving a positive result, isoniazid 250 mg/d, rifampicin 600 mg/d were initiated.
At this time, she was referred to our chronic hospital to continue treatment.
During his stay in this center, the fever and hemoptoic sputum persisted.
Shortly after, a report of mycobacterial culture was received, in which streptomycin-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis was isolated, followed by the Madrid Emergency Service for Isolation, and possibly pyrazinamide, was referred.
Once there, the sensitivity study was repeated, detecting resistance to all first-line drugs except pyrazinamide and sensitive to all second-line tested drugs, starting treatment with levofloxacin 250 mg/848 mg/ vial 500 mg.
After four weeks of treatment, worsening of fever and negative sputum smear microscopy results were observed, and the patient was discharged for consultation.
