Background, current disease and physical examination A 48-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity and ex-smoker.
After fumigating approximately 3 continuous hours with organophosphates without any protection, she suddenly presents with intense dyspnea diaphoresis and intense oppressive centrothoracic pain radiating to both upper limbs. Her family describes that she was unable to speak saliva.
Seated by your family to the hospital.
Upon arrival, she presented for cardiorespiratory arrest in a VF rhythm, resuscitation maneuvers were initiated, after 5 discharges rhythm reversal, but the patient remained hemodynamically active and started endotracheal intubation with significant respiratory failure.
After 45 minutes of resuscitation maneuvers, ECG showed complete AV block with escape rhythm at 45 bpm and ST elevation at II-III-aVF, V3 to V6 and V3R-V4 decline.
Fibrinolysis was decided because there was no hemodynamic unit in this center and CORECAM (Código Infarto Castilla la Mancha) was activated.
Despite NKT, the patient persists with ST-segment elevation and is referred for rescue ACTP.
Physical examination: patient with dementia, mechanical ventilation and need of high doses of vasoactive drugs.
TA 70/40, FC 30 lpm, FR 20, affilial, SaO2 100%.
Head and neck: myosis and abundant sialorrhea.
Heart attack - discharge; - discharge; - discharge;
Pulmonary fields with inspiratory wheezing and coughing, crackling rales on both bases and abundant mobilization of secretions.
Globulous abdomen, blushing, depressible, not evaluable.
Extremities with generalized fasciculations and myoclonus.
▁Complementary tests: leukocytes 22,300 with adequate differential count, Hb 14.3, hematocrit 43%, platelets 221,000, Act.
PT 83%, fibrinogen 258, glucose 513 mg/dl, urea 43, creatinine 1.6, total proteins: 6.7, GOT 832, GPT 578, LDH 1257, amylase 117 134, Ca13 MB, 2864
24-hour enzymatic peak CPK 6.586, CK-MB >304 and TnI >76.
© 2012 Sociedad Colombiana de Anestesiología y Reanimación.
Electrocardiogram before entering the catheterization laboratory showed no changes compared to that described before fibrinolysis.
Chest X-ray: cardiothoracic index at the upper limit of normal.
Interstitial infiltrate in both lower fields.
Transthoracic echocardiogram (vasoactive support and mechanical ventilation): LV non-dilated, with inferoposterior and septal apical mid-septal akinesia, without signs of valvular heart disease or mechanical complications of 42%, with LVEF.
Clinical manifestations The patient was admitted directly to the catheterization laboratory.
Before coronary angiography, transient endovenous implantation was performed through the right femoral vein and counterpulsation balloon via the left femoral artery.
Coronary angiography showed right dominance, uninjured ICT, ADA with parietal irregularities without significant stenosis, Cx hypodatid with distal flow (Timi and CD with complicated plaque and associated thrombus in the proximal region, permeable distal vessel).
Angioplasty guide is passed to distal DC and direct stent coated in proximal DC is implanted to the ostium. After this, there is no-reflow phenomenon that remits after intracoronary vasodilators.
On ECG after rescue PTCA sinus rhythm at 105 bpm, QS in II-III-aVF, QRS transition V1 to V2 with high R in V2 and VIII, ST-segment elevation 220 msa AV (elevation
As the acute coronary syndrome was resolved and the patient presented with symptoms (dyspnoea, abundant salivation, bronchorrhea, fasciculations, tremor in hands), signs (myophosphorystalmia, hypochloremia, haemodynamic
Despite maintaining hemodynamic and ventilatory support, and achieving correction of metabolic acidosis, the patient progresses to progressive renal failure hours requiring continued deterioration, early signs of hepatotoxicity and systemic inflammatory response syndrome
ECG after 48 hours of evolution in sinus rhythm at 74 bpm, QS in II-III-aVF, R high in V2 and V3, slight ST elevation in II-III-aVF and 220 VaVV V.
Two weeks after being in the VIU, the patient presented even more neurological deterioration, becoming▁spastic, with hyperreactivity of tendon reflexes, signs of dysautonomia and limb coldness.
After a torpid evolution and presenting among other complications typical of prolonged ICU admission, respiratory distress syndrome and septic shock by Pseudomona, the patient died 48 days after admission to the ICU.
Diagnosis Cardiorespiratory arrest witnessed in ventricular fibrillation.
Long-term advanced cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
Severe organophosphate poisoning
Acute coronary syndrome with ST-segment elevation inferior and RV.
Fondalysis without reperfusion criteria + ACTP of proximal CD.
Acute renal failure.
We've gotta fix this mask.
Acute hepatitis of probable mixed toxic/ischemic origin.
Adult respiratory distress syndrome
Septic shock due to Pseudomona aeruginosa.
Exitus.
