A 67-year-old woman presented with psoriasis without treatment and underwent total left knee replacement one year and a half before.
A number of months before admission to the hospital, various▁dermatological problems consisting of recurrent eczematous dermatitis and actinotrigus cream treated with histamines, and a cold rash treated with methylprednisone and cresolone.
One month before admission, the patient presented frequent vaginal discomfort with intense pruritus that was empirically treated with ovules and clotrimazole ointment when candidiasis was suspected, with very little clinical improvement.
One week before his arrival to the emergency room he had fever of up to 40oC, 36-48 hours of evolution, without a clear focus initially, but 24 hours after the febrile episode he presented without previous trauma and with a rapid progressive left knee impotence.
He was seen in the emergency room, where an examination with clear phlogistic signs was highlighted: heat, erythema and increased▁perimeter of the knee.
An increase in anterior joint space without affecting Hoffa fat or prosthetic mobilization was observed on X-rays.
Laboratory tests revealed lactate 16.1 mg/dl, C-reactive protein 398.9 mg/l, normal renal function, Hb 13 g/dl, leukocytes 13180/mcl 82% with 9710 neutrophils/mcl, platelets 231000/dl.
Diagnostic arthrocentesis and evacuation were performed, with exit of 50 cc of turbidity synovial fluid sent to the laboratory for cytobiochemistry and culture.
Differential diagnosis: A 67-year-old woman with few backgrounds of interest underwent surgery 19 months before total left knee replacement without complications in the postoperative period.
Acutely, after a self-limiting fever peak, the patient presents local inflammatory signs in the operated knee.
In the differential diagnosis we must consider the main pathologies that can lead to the development of a monoarthritis: • Arthritis due to microcrystalline deposits: first option to think about the differential diagnosis between a cathodic pseudo-hydroxyphosphate and its appearance frequency.
Although the coexistence of both entities is an uncommon phenomenon, this possibility should be taken into account.
• Post-traumatic arthritis: ruled out as there was no previous trauma.
• Hemartros.
A rapidly established joint effusion with functional impotence makes us think about this possibility.
However, hemarthros is not usually accompanied by fever, unless there is overinfection, and they are more common in people with a history of congenital or acquired coagulopathies, recent trauma or anticoagulant treatment.
• Inflammatory diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, lupus...).
It has an articular effusion with fever; however, the articular fluid is cloudy and does not present other signs and symptoms that support the possibility of autoimmune disease.
• Joint replacement infection
It presents local inflammatory signs and turbid joint fluid in the knee with prosthesis.
Due to its chronology, we must make a differential diagnosis between postsurgical infection of late presentation or acute infection.
The abrupt form of presentation and the accompanying clinic would further support the second option.
Synovial fluid leukocyte count/biochemical analysis revealed 123,621 leukocytes/mcl, of which 81% were polymorphonuclear, glucose 1 mg/dl, protein 5.7 g/dl, LDH 4054 U.
Surgical lavage of the articular cavity was programmed with replacement of polyethylene.
Given the clinical stability of the patient at admission and the absence of fever, it was decided to postpone antibiotic treatment to surgery to increase the profitability of intraoperative cultures.
However, the scheduling of the surgery took several days, due to problems of availability of the operating room.
When the result of synovial fluid culture obtained by arthrocentesis was previously known, with isolation of S. aureus, antibiotic treatment was initiated directed with ceftriaxone 2 grams every 24 hours.
The patient was discharged from the operating room with abundant purulent▁exudate and underwent thorough debridement and lavage with abundant saline.
Six samples of joint fluid were obtained during surgery and sent to the Microbiology laboratory for culture.
In 3 of the 6 intraoperative samples Streptococcus agalactiae was isolated.
Gram stain was positive and chain▁cocci.
In the detailed history, the patient had a history of severe vulvar pruritus secondary to dermal lesions resistant to treatment, which caused scratching lesions.
A thorough examination did not reveal any other possible entry door leading to subsequent dissemination of the isolated germ, which is common in the vaginal flora.
The patient was assessed by pathology report during admission, finding a hyperkeratotic lesion in the internal face and upper third of both lips, compatible with flat liquen.
A sample of vaginal▁exudate was taken for microbiological culture, which was negative.
After surgery, one week of intravenous ceftriaxone 2 gr/ 24 hours was completed, showing good clinical evolution and decrease in acute phase reactants.
Upon discharge, oral amoxicillin 1 g/ 6 hours and rifampicin 600 mg/24 h were administered for another 7 weeks.
Subsequently, an outpatient follow-up was performed, confirming the good clinical outcome.
Final diagnosis Acute infectious knee prosthesis secondary to bacteraemia due to Streptococcus agresia of genital origin due to scraping lesions on vulvar eczema.
