Anamnesis A 24-year-old male with a history of intestinal▁polyposis, left forearm angioma and right glue.
She came to the Emergency Department due to hematuria for one month of evolution with multiple previous consultations, worsening left diuresis and general state, fever of 38 oC of 12 hours of evolution, chills, sweating, renal failure.
Physical restraint upon admission: blood pressure 154/99 mmHg, heart rate 109 bpm, temperature 37.7 oC.
Painful abdomen due to left flank palpation and positive ipsilateral renal percussion; auscultation revealed a perceptible abdominal murmur.
Macroscopic hematuria was evidenced through vesical catheterization.
▁Complementary tests • Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis of 15,100 thousand/mm3, platelets 136,000 thousand/mm3, urinary sediment with >100▁parasites and leukocytes per field.
Rest without alterations.
• Abdominal ultrasound: arteriovenous kidney (AVM) in large left kidney with secondary aneurysmal dilatation of 9.5 cm.
Normal size left kidney, echogenicity and slightly increased corticomedullary differentiation.
• Computed tomography angiography: formation in the left kidney, of vascular aspect, with large caliber vessels and aneurysm formation in its lower pole of 92 x 95 mm, compatible with AVM.
Four arterial vessels originating from the aorta stenosis to the left kidney were objectified.
The aneurysm formation, in turn, communicates through the left renal vein with the vena cava, which has an increased caliber.
The right kidney was normal.
• The study is complemented from a cardiological point of view to clarify the impact of renal injury on the hemodynamic status of the patient.
• Transthoracic ultrasound: slight dilation of the four cardiac chambers with normal thickness, compatible with volume overload.
Normal left ventricular ejection fraction, normal valves.
Cavity plethora (severe dilation of 38 mm without respiratory collapse) in relation to hyperflow.
• Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging: cardiomegaly due to the presence of right cavities with signs of ipsilateral overload.
Dilatation of the pulmonary artery trunk, hypertrabeculation of both ventricles with predominance of the LV with decreased systolic function.
Diagnosis AVM of the left kidney was established, which coursed with hypertension and hematuria, complicated with acute left pyelonephritis.
Treatment Once the diagnosis was established, antibiotic treatment of the infection was initiated.
The case was later evaluated with Interventional Radiology, who ruled out intervention due to the morphological characteristics of the lesion and the technical impossibility of filling the neck with a small contrast-enhanced computed tomography scan of the left renal arteries using a similar access.
In view of the results, it was decided to carry out a joint intervention between Vascular Surgery and Urology.
A left block nephrectomy with AVM and aneurysm was performed.
Vascular malformations due to a favorable postoperative evolution, being discharged within a few days, with subsequent revisions that aim for the patient to be in good general condition and have experienced an improvement in his cardiological parameters
Currently, she is asymptomatic and hemodynamically stable, being followed up by Internal Medicine for multinodular goiter and Digestive Aparatus due to colonic▁polyposis.
