Personal history A 27-year-old male, born in Ghana, who had been living in Spain for two years.
He lived in a hostel.
No risk factors for acquiring sexually transmitted diseases or toxic habits.
No other relevant background.
The patient was admitted to the emergency room with fever of up to 39oC,▁malaise, fever and tiritone for 15 days.
She did not report any other accompanying symptoms.
Physical examination The patient was conscious, oriented and cooperative.
Febrile (39oC) and with an arterial oxygen saturation of 98%, with a heart rate around 95 bpm.
The neurological examination showed no data to highlight.
No cervical lymphadenopathy was observed.
Pharyngeal examination, cardiorespiratory auscultation, abdominal palpation and examination of the lower limbs were normal.
▁Complementary laboratory tests showed hemoglobin of 10.3 g/dL, leukocytes of 2.770/μL, (LUC 7.6%), and 99.000 platelets/μL.
The CD4+ lymphocyte count was 247 cells/μL.
Biochemistry showed elevated enzyme levels (GOT 555 IU/L, GPT 292 IU/l, GGT 459 IU/L, hepatic beta globulin/L 3.505-2-micro 4.05 IU/L total bilirubin).
Acute phase reactants showed a progressive increase (C-reactive protein from 12.3 to 216 mg/dL and sedimentation rate from 37 to 49 mm/h).
Antinuclear antibodies and anti-DNA antibodies were negative.
The proteinogram showed polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia.
In the study of anemias, iron overload was detected, and for coagulation, prothrombin activity was 64%.
In the extension of peripheral blood, polychromasia with basophilic punctate was observed and no schistoocytes were observed.
The serology for Ritesiosy, Brucella, Coxiella, Chlamydia, Loes, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Toxoplasma,▁Cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus, Ep.stein-HIV were negative.
Blood cultures were negative.
As for the markers of hepatitis, he had antibodies against hepatitis A and C virus negative; surface antigen of hepatitis B virus (HBV) positive; anticore antibody positive HBV antigen negative HBV antigen 7.881 antibody against hepatitis B virus positive surface (HBV IgMV) positive; antibody positive to hepatitis D antigen negative
Chest X-ray and echocardiography were normal.
Abdominal ultrasound and chest and abdominal CT showed moderate hepatomegaly (less than 17.6 cm in its major axis).
Bone marrow aspirate diagnostic test: presence of Leishmania.
Clinical judgement Visceral Leishmaniasis.
Chronic hepatitis B virus with delta superinfection.
After diagnosis, the patient was treated with liposomal amphotericin B 4 mg/ kg/day for five days and then continued on 4 mg/kg/day for five weeks.
A vitamin K ampoule was administered daily.
After the first 48 hours of treatment, fever disappears, becoming asymptomatic since then.
Analytical parameters showed a tendency to normalization (GOT 128 IU/L, GPT 150 IU/L, total bilirubin 1.7 mg/dL, LDH 997 IU/L, prothrombin activity 81% and CD4+ 608).
The patient was admitted to the Gastroenterology Unit to continue monitoring his liver disease.
