A 23-year-old woman with no known drug allergies and no toxic habits.
The patient had no personal or family medical history of interest and did not take any medication on a regular basis.
She presented three lesions on the back of her left hand and one lesion on the edge of her right hand.
The lesions were circular and ulcerated, around three centimeters in diameter.
In addition, he had multiple subcutaneous nodules throughout the left arm.
He did not report fever or other symptoms.
In the directed anamnesis he reported a recent trip to Colombia where he had traveled both in the north and south of the country, returning to Spain three weeks before the exploration, and during his journey he had suffered bites.
After a first assessment in the emergency department, the patient had been treated with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, being advised as a bacterial superinfection of insect bites, with some improvement of the lesions, which had been scraped.
On physical examination, cardiorespiratory auscultation was normal, as well as abdominal palpation and the rest of the systemic examination.
Laboratory tests showed normal blood count, ESR 14 mm/h, glucose 81 mg/dl, normal renal and hepatic function, CRP 5.63 mg/dl and negative serology for HBV, HCV and HIV.
The urine study was normal.
▁dermatological lesions and the absence of systemic symptoms were differentially diagnosed with multiple nodular ulcerative lesions in relation to insect bites, which may occur in the country of origin.
Differential diagnosis The diagnostic keys that would point to cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) are: chronicity, location of well-defined subcutaneous lesions, clustering of lesions, inflammatory nodules along the skin ridges, indurated edges,▁papules.
With the eminently clinical and epidemiological diagnosis of probable cutaneous leishmaniasis, versus less probable mycobacterial infections, skin biopsy and treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid are performed until the result of the biopsy.
One week later, lesions persisted after amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, and enters the differential diagnosis with ¶rénoso.
Synthesis is prescribed.
The biopsy report revealed LC.
A treatment with master formula of paramomycin was initiated and PCR was performed to identify Leishmania sp.
Final diagnosis Localized cutaneous leishmaniasis with risk data for progression to mucosal and systemic leishmaniasis.
If a patient develops a fever, cough, or fever, cough may occur within a few days of treatment if the symptoms persist or worsen (see section 4.4)
At the same time, and given the possibility of overinfection, cloxacillin was discontinued for 10 days, followed by topical betadine and mupirocin dressings.
No pharyngeal, laryngeal or nasal involvement was observed by ENT evaluation.
Gluantime was monitored by electrocardiogram, hemogram, renal function, liver function, amylase and lipase tests, in view of the possibility of possible secondary effects.
After several weeks of treatment, the species was identified as Leishmania donovani complex, detected by PCR and sequencing After 21 days of treatment, the patient had a good evolution of the skin lesions.
Eight weeks after the end of treatment with glucantime, the lesions worsened, with a new increase in the edge of the lesions, even increasing in size compared to the initial lesions, with inflammatory signs, but without lymphangitis.
Skin biopsy was repeated and Leishmania sp. was confirmed again.
Given the failure of glucantime, treatment with liposomal amphotericin B was initiated at a dose of 3 mg/kg/d.
With the first infusion of liposomal amphotericin B, she had a severe anaphylactic reaction and treatment was discontinued.
At that time, treatment with oral miltefosine 150 mg/24 hours for 4 weeks was decided.
The patient was correctly treated with this line and▁cryotherapy was added.
The patient has not presented new activity data after a follow-up of more than 3 months and the control biopsy performed at the end of treatment is negative.
