Consultation anxiety and insomnia.
Individual focus (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests) Patient who comes to the consultation because he refers that he is very innocillary and has been unable to sleep for several days.
After a few minutes in the consultation, we finally realize that she▁dedicates herself to prostituation and that two weeks ago the condom broke and that since then "can't stop thinking about if she has something bad".
Reviewing his history, we see that he has consulted several times for the same reason.
The patient had no personal history of interest.
NAMC.
No surgical interventions.
The patient denied any other symptoms.
She has no genital discomfort.
No affectation of general condition.
She hasn't had a fever.
Aware and oriented.
BEG.
BH.BP.
ACP.
Rhythmic without murmurs.
MVC without noise
Genital examination was performed (no lymphadenopathy, ulcers or external signs of infection were evident).
Family and community approach The patient lives with her daughter and two grandchildren and refers to being concerned about them for themselves "can get them something".
Clinical judgement (listed problems, differential diagnosis) Failure of the contraceptive method in the population at risk.
Transient insomnia.
Plan of action and evolution We requested laboratory tests for syphilis, V H, VHA, HBV, HCV.
We requested a Pap smear.
Recommendations regarding STD prevention were made: 1- Recommendations: Non-compliance with sharp objects.
Your partner or trustee can be infected without knowing it and transmitting the infection.
2- Main warning signs of STIs: Lesions in genitalia (inherited, crusts, suppuration, inflammation, etc.)
Increased vaginal discharge with pain and unpleasant odor
Persistent itching or stinging
However, many STIs may go unnoticed.
3- How is STI transmitted?
Sexual use.
By vaginal, anal, orogenital sex, without a condom with an infected person
Blood use.
Through▁piercing-cutting elements shared with other people: needle tips, syringe needles, piercing aids and tattooing.
Perinatal use.
During pregnancy, childbirth, or breastfeeding
4- How is HIV not transmitted?
By living or working with an infected person
By giving your hand, kiss, caressing, or hugging.
Because they share clothes, roofs, pots, shower or WC.
