A 26-year-old female patient, with no relevant history, was admitted to the hospital from another institution due to fever of 39°C, hypotension refractory to volume resuscitation, cutaneous hyperesthesia.
The clinical picture had been interpreted as toxic shock, being hemocultivated and antibiotic treatment was started before the referral.
Upon admission to the intensive care unit of our hospital, the patient was confused, tachypnea (120/min), hypotensive (70/40 mmHg) and afflicted.
He had painful pururic lesions in palms, soles, subungual region, nail and periporal conjunctiva compatible with peripheral embolism.
No heart murmurs were heard.
He did not present other alterations in the physical examination.
In the admission laboratory platelet count (5839,000/mm3), 4500 leukocytes/mm3, low prothrombin time (58%) and acute renal failure parameters (high creatininemia) were observed.
Urinary sediment showed albuminuria, microscopic hematuria and granular casts.
The rest of the analyses were within normal parameters (haematocytes, hepatograms, HIV negative, subunit b negative).
The eye fundus was normal.
Chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly and bilateral interstitial-alveolar infiltrate.
Septic shock was interpreted and hemocultives were performed (low antibiotics due to having received 1 dose of cefoxime / clindamycin / amikacin) and treatment with cefotaxin was initiated.
On the second day of hospitalization, the patient persisted with signs of heart failure on chest X-ray adding bilateral infiltrates such as pulmonary edema and compatible semiology, so a moderate consultation of the mitral valve regurgitation was requested in the cardiology department.
Infectious endocarditis was diagnosed 24 hours after admission.
Treatment with clindamycin is discontinued.
During her evolution the patient worsens her hemodynamics, requiring inotropic drugs and her respiratory mechanics requiring non-invasive ventilation.
After several days of antibiotic treatment, the patient continued with fever records.
A transesophageal echocardiogram showed an image compatible with mitral annulus abscess.
Due to the hemodynamic instability of the patient, the cardiovascular surgery service decides not to take surgical measures at that time.
Four days after admission, the first blood cultures were positive for Staphilococcus Aureus, aminoglycocids were suspended, and Vancomycin was indicated.
The patient improved her hemodynamic parameters, and laboratory parameters, reverted renal failure, skin lesions disappeared, and after 16 days she was allowed to transfer to Buenos Aires to continue antibiotic treatment and plan the surgical strategy.
