A 78-year-old male with a mechanical mitral valve since 2016 due to severe mitral regurgitation due to mitral endocarditis in 1986 and bladder neoplasia under study.
He consulted due to general▁malaise, fever and hematuria without dysuria since the performance of cystoscopy the previous week.
The physical examination revealed a systolic murmur II/VI pan7.769 with a slight predominance of leukocytes in the mitral focus without other remarkable findings. At the analytical level, mild anemia was observed with normocytic hemoglobin0/mg of reactive protein 10dl.
Empirical ciprofloxacin is initiated with the initial diagnostic guidance for acute prostatitis.
In the initial emergency hemocultives, a Streptococcus infantarius (former bovis biotype II group) was identified, with a negative uroculture.
Ceftriaxone antibiotic therapy was changed, echocardiographic studies were requested to rule out endocarditis and control blood cultures were extracted.
In the control hemocultives an Enterococcus faecium was observed, so the antibiotic therapy was changed to teicoplanin 10mg/kg/24h to cover both bacteria.
A transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography was performed, which showed a mobile linear image up to 13 mm in the anterior mitral annulus suggestive of vegetation originating at this point jet of moderate prosthetic insufficiency.
The findings are also confirmed by PET-CT describing hypermetabolic activity in the mitral prosthetic valve with no other significant changes.
The microbiological findings were completed with a voiding cyst with a finding of 15 residuals that were▁resected with anatomopathological study compatible with low grade dysplasia and 1▁polyp with high grade dysplasia.
A TURP of bladder neoplasia was also performed, with the finding of low grade urothelial carcinoma, non-extension pTa G2a with PET-CT without programmed regional lymphadenopathy or extravesical.
diagnosis of mitral prosthetic endocarditis without local complications is completed 6 weeks of antibiotic treatment with glycopeptides with good clinical outcome and outpatient follow-up hemocultives at 2 and 4 weeks negative antibiology
