Anamn A 58-year-old male patient with a history of dyslipidemia, non-insulin dependent diabetes, ischemic stroke and cerebral neovascularization with neuroCR therapy in March 2011, with positive intramuscular ataxia, bilateral inter-initiation, penicillin sequelae, diagnosed
Controls were terminated and it is unknown whether the prescribed antibiotic treatment continued.
The day before admission, the patient complained of headache and language impairment, which resolved within hours; the patient slept and, as he slept a lot, his wife tried to wake up without getting him.
Arterial hypertension: 140/100 mmHg.
Heart rate: 90 bpm.
Afebril.
The patient was stupor, without ocular opening, and did not find pain.
Don't emit language, I don't even complain.
Myotic hair, reactive to light
Seated deviation from the look on skew, divergent strabismus.
Abolited oculocephalic segments, preserved corneal reflex
Facial trauma to pain
Motor system: tetraparesis, mental illness, removes the lower limbs.
Abolited osteotendinous ligaments
No neck stiffness or meningeal signs.
• Blood tests
Blood count: hemoglobin 14.6 g/dl, hematocrit 44.8%, leukocyte count 83.6, leukocyte count ̈MCM80/mm3, hematocrit N 10.3%, platelet count 123,000/mm3.
Normal ESR.
Biochemistry: no relevant findings.
Hepatic and lipid profile without pathological findings.
Normal RCT.
Total proteins, albumin, calcium, normal phosphorus.
Proteinogram: normal.
Normal immunoglobulins and complement.
CRP 29.2 mg/dl.
Luetic serology: VDRL and FTA positive.
HIV: negative.
• Lumbar puncture on admission: pressure of 20 cm H2O.
Biochemistry: leukocytes 1/mm3, glucose 67 mg/dl, proteins 0.49 g/l.
VDRL: negative.
FTA: positive.
IgG positive toxoplasma.
Negative culture.
Positive oligoclonal bands.
• Chest X-ray: no significant findings.
• Unenhanced CT of the skull at admission: bithalamic hypodensity in relation to infarction in the territory of the Percherón artery.
• Cranial CT angiography: does not show significant alterations.
• Doppler ultrasound of TSA: carotid atheromatosis, without significant stenosis.
Diagnosis Ischemic stroke in the territory of Percherón artery.
Neurosyphilis with meningovascular involvement.
Dyslipidaemia, non-insulin dependent diabetes
Treatment The patient received symptomatic and etiological treatment with triflusal solution 600 mg, as well as penicillin at high doses parenterally.
Once the magnetic resonance was stable, the patient remained hemodynamically stable, remained with a low level of consciousness, which gradually improved, alternating with periods of psychomotor agitation, which is why she did not have it.
Clinically, at the time of diagnosis, the patient presented moderate cognitive impairment, with persistence of ataxia and internuclear depletion.
Comparing the cerebrospinal fluid of admission with the diagnostic cerebrospinal fluid, cellularity and VDRL titers had been demonstrated.
