A 16-year-old woman with a history of mixed hyperandrogenism (follow-up by gynecologic and endocrinology) presented to her Primary Care Centre for fever and odynophagia of two weeks duration.
After showing a clinchomycosis due to pulsatile plaques and a painful right laterocervical adenopathy, treatment was prescribed with phenoxymethylpenicillin (250 mg every 12 hours), which was modified by clindamycin.
The condition does not improve in the following days, with a significant delay.
Escherichia coli is isolated in an uroculum treating with certain dysuria.
Ciprofloxacin treatment is replaced and the patient is hospitalized.
Upon admission, the patient had acceptable general status and good level of consciousness.
The patient was afflicted with shock (36.7oC) and hemodynamically stable (116/78mmHg blood pressure and 103 beats per minute).
Complete examination by no evidence of significant abnormalities, except for the presence of small right cervical lymphadenopathy in ganglionic areas II-III and the existence of exudate palatine tonsils stage II eradicated palatine tonsils.
No evidence was found of anterior bulging▁pillars or clear bulging.
The initial complementary tests showed a mild leukocytosis without left shift (11,150 leukocytes/mm3, 35.3% neutrophils, 57% lymphocytes and 6.4% monocytes).
Hemoglobin was 13.3 g/dL and platelets 213,000 per plaq/mm3.
Renal function was normal (creatinine 0.81 mg/dL, urea 21.6 mg/dL, sodium 141 mmol/L and potassium sensitivity 3.81 mmol/L) and a minimal increase in liver enzymes gamma transferase was observed (as
Chest X-ray and abdominal ultrasound were normal.
After 24 hours of admission the patient began with weakness in the lower limbs.
On physical examination, bilateral nystagmus, 3/5 global paraparesis, hyperreflexia of the upper limbs and slight▁rigidity of the neck were observed.
There was no sensory deficit.
Several hours later, paraparesis of the lower limbs progressed to affect the upper limbs.
The patient also reported diplopia and a significant decrease in the level of consciousness was observed.
Urgent skull computed tomography showed no significant findings and a lumbar puncture revealed a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with normal organoleptic properties and outflow pressure.
The CSF biochemistry showed 45 leukocytes/mm3 with 5% polymorphonuclear and 95% mononuclear, glucose 62 mg/dl and total proteins 48.3 mg/dl.
Differential diagnosis of a patient with impaired consciousness level would be necessary to establish a differential diagnosis between several entities: • Traumatic: ruled out due to the lack of previous traumatic history.
• Toxic-Nutritional: vitamin B12 deficiency, niacin deficiency, radiation myelopathy, heavy metal toxicity, drug toxicity, alcoholism, diabetes, amyloidosis, etc.
The clinical manifestations typical of these entities and the lack of exposure or consumption of toxics discard them.
• Paraneoplastic syndromes: microcytic lung carcinoma and breast and ovarian carcinoma, as the most common malignancies.
The absence of compatible symptoms, the lack of history to support the diagnosis and the normality of chest X-ray and abdominal ultrasound allow us to reasonably rule out these diagnoses.
• Ischemic: occlusion of the anterior spinal artery or a segmental branch of the aorta, bifrontal cerebral infarction, dural fistulae, etc.
The age of the patient and the paulatine progression of the clinical picture go against these possibilities.
• Compressive: tumours, epidural or subdural hematoma, epidural abscess, syringomyo, lumbar canal stenosis, vertebral spondylosis, disc herniation, etc.
or less severe at the level of the lesion, circumstances not mentioned by the patient.
Symptoms in which anaesthesia is the most common, must be considered in the first place; multiple manifestations are the most common, and are absent in our patient after a focused examination;
In addition, the presence of a febrile process (present in our patient) should be ruled out for the diagnosis of multiple malformations.
Second, we should consider the presence of an acute idiopathic demyelinating polyneuropathy (Guillain-syndrome).
This disease is characterized by weakness of the extremities, paresthesia in the acral regions, generalized hyporeflexia and a patient with cephalorachidian-cytological alteration in the fluid, absent in the cerebrospinal fluid.
• Infectious: fever, decreased level of consciousness, and tetraparesis is suggestive of acute post-infectious disseminated encephalomyelitis.
It is an abnormal immune response to an infection or vaccination that appears 5 to 20 days after the acute episode.
The etiologic agents are measles, varicella-zoster virus (VZV), rubella, parotididid, Ep Cse virus (other than rarely associated), Mycoplasma pneumoniae, influenza, hepatitis A and other frequently associated infections.
It would be the first option to consider in our patient.
The antecedent of odynophagia with probable palatine tonsil hypertrophin with non-conclusive pseudomyxosis and laterocervical adenopathies suggest EBV as the most etiological agent
Cervical MRI T2-weighted sequences showed inflammatory signs at the level of the cervical cord.
C5- ev due to clinical progression, a cervical-dorsal-lumbosacra magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, highlighting a tenuous segment of hypersignal in a T2-weighted, linear
There was also a minimal spinal cord swelling at this level that did not present contrast enhancement.
The findings were indicative of inflammatory involvement compatible with acute myelitis.
The data obtained from the radiological tests associated with the history of fever and the deterioration of the level of consciousness allowed to establish the diagnosis of post-infectious disseminated acute encephalomyelitis.
The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit and was treated with topical salicylate 10 mg/kg/8h and methylprednisolone boluses (1g/day, 3 days).
Ciprofloxacin was maintained (400 mg IV every 12 hours).
EBV serology was positive (IgG: 53.40 U/mL, IgM: positive), as well as serology for cytomegalovirus (CMV) (IgG: 48.69 weak U/mL).
Serology for HIV, herpes simplex virus (HSV) 1 and 2, parvo B19, hepatitis A and B virus, zoster virus (VZV), Coxitplasma Toxoplasma gondii virus were negative and Rhizovirus.
Because of the absence of heterophile antibody positivity, it was decided to change the avirulence by ganvir (275 mg every 12 hours) in the intensive care unit.
The patient improved rapidly and went to the ward where treatment with ganvir was maintained for two weeks.
No oral glucocorticoid regime or other therapeutic measures such as immunoglobulins or plasmapheresis were used given the good clinical evolution.
Cerebrospinal fluid polymerase chain reaction for ESR, VZV and enterovirus was negative.
Two weeks after the first serology a second determination was made.
The presence of EBV IgM (IgG: 25.7 U/mL, IgM: positive) was confirmed, and in this case CMV IgM was negative (IgG: 38.14 U/mL, IgM: negative).
Upon discharge, the patient walked autonomously without external assistance, without gait ataxia and without dysmetria.
Final diagnosis Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis post-infectious Epstein-Pugh virus.
