Anamn 72-year-old patient with personal history of by-painless obstruction accompanied by mass iliac, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, bilateral cc-ticism of non-severe vomiting, vomiting diarrhea nausea, respiratory distress syndrome.
External genitals: testicles and epididymis of normal size, shape and consistency, mobile, not ascended, non-painful; normal penis; non-stenotic urethral meatus or signs of inflammation.
Rectal examination: prostate grade II, with a left lobe with well-defined borders and adenomatous consistency, painless.
In the right lobe, a mass with a stony consistency, difficult to delimit, very painful to delimit is located.
▁Complementary tests Laboratory tests: • Blood count: leukocytes 18 x 103/μl, platelets 148 x 103/μl, neutrophils 80%, CRP 20 mg/dl.
Rest of normal parameters.
• Biochemistry: glucose 195 mg/dl, creatinine 1.9 mg/dl, urea 85 mg/dl.
Normal parameter remnant.
• Coagulation: normal.
• Sedation: leukocyturia, microhematuria and bacteriuria with negative nitrites.
Imaging tests • Transrectal ultrasound: left lobe with normal echostructure.
In the middle third of the right lobe, an anechoic area of 2.71 x 1.99 cm is observed with floating echoes within it extending to the ipsilateral ischiorectal space.
• Pelvic computed tomography (CT): prostatic hypertrophy with growth of the middle lobe that imprints on the bladder floor.
Hypodense area in the lower right prostate region associated with a liquid collection in the right ischior fossa, of approximately 4.3 cm transverse diameter, anteroposterior cranio diameter and 4 cm
Diagnosis Access to the proband extending to the ipsilateral ischiorectal fossa.
Treatment A urinary catheter is placed and urine and blood cultures (negative emboli) are extracted, starting treatment with imipenem 500 mg/6 h and gentamicin 160 mg/24 h parenterally.
Transperineal percutaneous drainage guided by transrectal ultrasound was performed, obtaining 25 ml of purulent secretion that was sent to culture (positive to Escherichia coli).
A Ch 10 nephrostomy catheter is placed.
The patient was discharged with a urinary catheter, without fever and with progressive normalization of analytical parameters, continuing home antibiotic treatment for 2 weeks with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 87
