Clinical case presentation: A 47 year-old male with no relevant history, who came to the emergency department complaining of severe abdominal and lumbar pain for about two weeks, severe vomiting, nausea.
intramuscular administration of diclofenac and dexamethasone 10 days before.
On examination, TA 80/50; Fc: 109 bpm; Ta: 37.5o.
Poor general condition.
Establishment of a serious disease.
Pallor of the skin and mucous membranes
Poor pre-fused.
Dysneic.
Neurological: non-focality AR: MVC.
CA: rhythmic tones without murmurs.
Abdomen: It is not worthwhile because it is impossible to perform the examination in supine position due to intense pain at the lumbar level and glue, although indurated areas with puffy skin are seen very painful superficial to glue.
LEII: bilateral edema, fovea +.
▁Complementary examination revealed: 27,400/mm3 (neutrophils 22%), Hg 9.9 g/dl, normal coagulation, leukocyte count 313, procalcitonin 0.84, PCR 115.
EKG: Tachy sinus 109 bpm.
Chest X-ray: no relevant data CT abdomen and pelvis c/c: Discrete bilateral pleural effusion.
Lymph node imaging of the pelvis up to 1 cm adjacent to the right main iliac vessels and left external iliac vessels.
Dilatation of colic frame to rectum where high density content is observed.
Minimum amount of free fluid in the pelvis
At the level of the left and right major glúteo muscle, both the most significant and the most hypodense center are observed, with a slight peripheral uptake extending to the presacral space.
Small isolated air bubbles adjacent to the right fascia lata to the right iliac pala and right intermuscular fascia glúteas.
Increase in soft tissue at presacral level, up to the discal level L5-S1 with erosiónc of these vertebral irregularities is extendable L1. and areas of ̈Sdylo-S1 suggestive of
The patient required the administration of vasoactive drugs to maintain hemodynamic stability.
She had a good course with empirical antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone and cloxa iv.
After being evaluated by general surgery, a surgical intervention was performed for the drainage of abscesses, being later admitted to the internal medicine infectious unit, with E. coli isolated in hemocultive abscesses and in samples from blood.
Diagnosis: Septic shock secondary to L5-S1 spondylodiscitis and glue abscesses due to E. coli infection.
