A 36-year-old woman with restrictive-purgative anorexia nervosa and unfavorable evolution; DM1 with poor metabolic control, no complications; primary hypothyroidism; focal epilepsy with complex partial seizures; and multiple endoscopic ileocolic attempts with ingestion of cause 4
She was admitted for diarrhea (10 stools/day) for 4 days associated with general▁malaise and oral intolerance.
Physical examination revealed hypotension+signs of consolidation.
The right jugular vein was canalized, presenting laterocervical hemorrhage, requiring orotracheal intubation and new central line canalization.
You have adult respiratory distress syndrome
After stabilization, nutritional assessment was performed with weight 32kg and BMI 11.3kg/m2 and analytical objective was anemia, HbA1c7.1%, TSH 34.44 IU/ml, FT4 6.3p FSH 86mg/dl.
Continuous enteral nutrition is initiated by NGT and supplements of phosphorus, magnesium, potassium and thiamine.
Endoscopy was performed in the presence of multiple exits of NGT and dilatation of esophageal stenosis and placement of SNY, adding TPN to meet requirements.
During admission, glycemic control is complicated, with glycemic variability in relation to nutrition administration and self-disconnection and gastrointestinal endoscopy.
The patient began with fever, with the diagnosis of ketoacidosis ruled out, and Piperacillin-T was started with a remnant ablation 4g/8h.
Three days later, she developed upper limb edema and fistula. Doppler ultrasound was performed with a left internal vein thrombophilic. The left internal vein was isolated in the lower limb vein and▁subclavian vein was added to the right upper limb.
Candida albicans was isolated in central venous catheter, hemocultive and pustular secretion and Fluconazole 400mg/24h was initiated.
Transesophageal echocardiography cannot be performed to rule out endocarditis, but there are no pathological findings in the transthoracic and candidemic endophthalmitis is ruled out.
A CT scan of the chest revealed a pattern of micronodules predominantly subpleural - pulmonary manifestation of candidiasis-.
The diarrheic picture was studied, being compatible with malaractive picture.
The patient later presented with confirmed pseudomebranous colitis.
Finally, the patient was discharged after improvement of nutritional status (increase of 13.2kg -BMI 16.1-), glycemic control and diarrhea.
In addition, the fever resolved and the patient had a favorable evolution of septic thromboflebitis of the central vein.
