Anamnesis A 65-year-old woman with intolerance to tramadol and ICU admission in August-07 due to urinary sepsis caused by Escherichia coli.
Previous surgical interventions: dorsal spine kyphoscoliosis.
It was diagnosed in January-08 by chest CT, PET,▁bronchoscopy and later left upper lobectomy with lymphadenectomy of pulmonary adenocarcinoma pT2pN0 (0/8) M0.
At follow-up, with no evidence of disease, until September-11, which was documented by PET/CT recurrence in the form of two pulmonary nodules on which FNA was performed with anatomopathological report of adenocarcinoma.
Associated with this, left pneumonectomy plus lymphadenectomy was performed, with a well-differentiated pathological report of Adenocarcinoma measuring 2.4 cm which decided visceral carcinoma and surgical margins, without lymph node involvement and mutated EGFR.
Febero-13 showed recurrence as a pulmonary nodule in LSD together with right low paratracheal adenopathy.
Risk of complications is rejected new biopsy and Gefitinib is indicated at the usual doses, 250 mg daily, with complete radiologic response, both by CT and PET and with excellent tolerance.
During follow-up, and when completely asymptomatic, it is detected by PET, in December-15, pathological uptake at the level of mediastinal lymph nodes.
Physical training - hypertension 125 Frecu/75 mm Hg, heart rate 90 beats/min, temperature 37o C, oxygen saturation 97% -conscious and oriented in 3 episodes.
The patient was sedated, normoperfused and had a normal color.
Eupneic at rest.
IK 80 -C a plus neck: normal jugular venous pressure, without adenopathies -Thorax: Auscultation cardiac: arrhythmia not soplos.
Pulmonary consolidation: left hemifield hypoventilation.
Scars correct previous interventions -Abdomen: Scarring, not painful.
Positive hydroaerial noises.
Lower extremities: No edemas.
Post-cirrhotic sources complementary tests (PET): hypermetabolism in lymph nodes located in the right paratracheal region high and low (Suv 8.145), malignant (EBU 7.99 recurrences)
Lymphatic ganglion with granulomatous without necrosis - The latter is completely mutated Geinatic sarcoidosis in R, 4L and 2GFR it decides a systemic granulomatous lymphadenitis epithelioid compatible with Sarcoidosis diagnosis - asymptomatic expector carcinoma
With regard to the treatment of the neoplasia, it was decided to maintain treatment with Gefitinib when there was excellent response and tolerance.
Endoscopic examination of the PET findings revealed a completely asymptomatic patient. We decided to complete EBUS study and then▁mediastinum, in order to determine whether there was recurrence.
Interestingly, the anatomopathological study did not show the presence of malignant cells, if not the opposite, an inflammatory process, such as sarcoidosis.
This allowed us to maintain the treatment with Gefitinib in our patient, who still maintains complete response today.
