Anamnesis A 63-year-old man was allergic to▁acetylsalicylic acid and an ex-smoker of 80 pack-years.
The patient had a history of inguinal hernia surgery 20 years ago and left fracture with implantation of osteosyntesis material.
She had a family history of colon (father), uterus (sister) and breast cancer (5 sister cousins).
It began in April 2016 with dry cough symptoms treated with antibiotics.
The persistence of the clinical symptoms and the association of asthenia, hypoxia and dyspnea on moderate exertion, is referred to the▁Pneumology Department, starting the diagnostic study on an outpatient basis.
Establishment plan 1.
Good general condition.
The examination revealed pulmonary hypoventilation in the left hemithorax, with roncus stenosis, without other abnormalities.
▁Complementary tests A chest-abdomen and pelvis computerized tomography (CT) was performed, which revealed obstructive atelectasis of the left lower lobe of the lung, associated with parietal thickening in the left main bronchus, with lobar stenosis at the exit of the
In addition, a 21 mm pulmonary nodule with irregular contours in the lateral segment of the middle lobe is described.
We must emphasize the existence of▁conglomerates adenohypostinic and bilateral hiliar lymphadenopathy.
Bronchoscopy revealed a grade III mucosa in the left main bronchus, which was biopsied and was conclusive of epidermoid carcinoma.
The study of EGFR, ALK and ROS-1 was negative, while PD-L1 was positive (10
Analytically, there are no pathological findings.
Diagnosis Epidermoid carcinoma of the left lung cT2N3 M1 (contralateral pulmonary nodule) stage IV (according to the 7 edition of the TNM classification).
Treatment Systemic chemotherapy with cisplatin-gemcitabine was initiated in December 2016, with a total of 4 cycles until March 2017.
A reassessment CT scan was performed, showing partial response, so she received consolidation chest radiotherapy until the end of May.
It should be noted that CT shows incidental pulmonary thromboembolism, for which the patient receives anticoagulant treatment with low molecular weight heparin for one year.
The patient has a disease response on positron emission tomography (PET) performed after radiotherapy is completed.
Ev. in September 2017, 4 months after radiation therapy, pulmonary and mediastinal nodal progression was observed on PET, which is why a second line of systemic treatment with immunotherapy (nivolumab) was started.
Three weeks after the first dose, in October, the patient developed rectal pain and fever of 38 oC, requiring surgery for a right perianal abscess of 7 cm extending to the fossa.
Drainage was performed, obtaining abundant purulent material, and placement of a Pezzer tube, with progressive clinical improvement.
We must emphasize the analytical evidence of asymptomatic hyperthyroidism, for which treatment with metamizol 5 mg is initiated. In December, treatment with nivolumab is resumed.
After 5 doses, in January 2018, the patient presented worsening of the previous right perineal wound, with spontaneous suppuration through it.
A new surgery was performed, showing perineal abscess extending to the right scrotum, with crepitation at this level.
The necrotic material was debrided and abundant lavage of the cavity was performed, finding microbiological documentation of Escherichia coli, for which antibiotic treatment was directed with cephalosporins.
The patient evolved favorably, with disappearance of the arthritis and the perilesional inflammatory signs, so he was discharged with a diagnosis of outpatient Fournier ́s disease, continuing with local cure.
One month after discharge in February 2018, the patient required a new admission due to respiratory failure symptoms. CT scans showed pulmonary consolidations in relation to pneumonitis secondary to nivolumab.
Treatment with systemic▁steroids was initiated at a dose of 1 mg/kg, with progressive clinical improvement, so she was discharged.
In April, a reassessment CT was performed, with improvement of the infiltrates and tumor stabilization, so it remains without oncological treatment.
In June, steroid treatment was discontinued and the CT was repeated, showing the disappearance of consolidations and partial response of the pulmonary and mediastinal nodal disease.
One month after suspending steroid treatment in July 2018, the patient began with macroscopic hematuria. Urology assessed the patient who underwent cystoscopy, which showed a papillary malignancy in the left bladder excrecent level.
In August transurethral resection of the lesion was performed, and the pathological anatomy was conclusive with a non-invasive low grade urothelial carcinoma pT1a.
Follow-up continued, presenting clinical deterioration of one month of evolution consisting of asthenia, hypoxia and epigastric pain with associated nausea and vomiting, so she was admitted in October 2018.
During admission, a CT reassessment was performed, obtaining stabilization of pulmonary and mediastinal ganglionic disease, but as new findings, a pancreatic head lesion suggestive of malignancy, secondarily regional lymphadenopathy was found.
The clinical deterioration of the patient, with poor functional situation, decides to treat symptomatic relief without performing any other diagnostic or therapeutic gesture.
Finally, the patient died in November 2018.
