Anamnesis Unremarkable family history
Personal history: no known drug allergies.
He did not report toxic habits.
Dyslipidemia.
Stage V chronic kidney disease secondary to juvenile polycystic kidney disease.
He started renal replacement therapy in 1991.
She had a kidney transplant from a living-related donor (mother) on 16/4/1991, and started dialysis for chronic graft nephropathy in March 2009.
Septic shock of biliary origin due to GNB that required ICU admission in September 2010.
After imaging tests, the patient was diagnosed with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and recurrent cholangitis, requiring the placement of a biliary plastic stent.
In addition, she was diagnosed with chronic portal liver disease with portal hypertension ascites, mycophenomegaly + esophageal varices grade I. Hepatorenal transplant on 2/9/2011, which required tacrolimus-pleuppression
Protein-caloric malnutrition.
Emergency surgery in May 2012 for incarcerated hernia.
Currently, renal function is maintained at baseline with creatinine around 2.1-2.5 mg/dl (CrCl 35-45 ml/min).
Good liver function, although she has recurrent ascites that has required recurrent paracentesis evacuators.
▁Oncological history: in June 2013, the patient presented a painful lesion in the shoulder. After exeresis on September 5, 2013, the patient was diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma of the right 12/12/2013, which required a second surgical intervention.
Postoperatively, a homolateral axillary nodule is noted, so ultrasound and CT are performed, suggesting the probable metastatic origin of the same; furthermore, a biopsy is performed that is inconclusive.
After presenting the case in the multidisciplinary committee, axillary lymph node staging was decided.
Finally, the diagnosis of PA is metastases of squamous cell carcinoma, with images of tumor vascular invasion and extension to adjacent soft tissues, in 14/17 isolated lymph nodes.
Consultation: referred to our center for evaluation of specific treatment.
Pharmacovigilance Plan
Acceptable general condition.
Weight 60 kg, height 170 cm.
Multiple verrucous lesions throughout the body surface, especially the back.
More painful chest injury with a pustule on the cheek
Area with edema in the scar of lymphadenectomy in the right axilla, with a small nodule in the central area.
Cardiopulmonary arrest with no findings.
They are slightly distended, they kill percussion.
Members without findings.
▁Complementary tests' Analytical: Cr 2.1 mg/dl stands out.
Blood count: Hb 12.6 g/dl, leukocytes and neutrophils in range, platelets 110,000.
» Contrast-enhanced chest CT (28/4/2014): extension study of squamous cell carcinoma.
It presents several malignant lymph nodes in the right axilla.
The appearance of a single pulmonary nodule with polylobulated edges of 10 mm maximum diameter in the LSD suggesting a metastatic nodule, and a ganglion with a necrotic center in the lower bronchopulmonary lymph node chain probably.
Infectious▁bronchiolitis areas in both lung bases.
Free ascites.
Advanced squamous cell carcinoma (second axillary lymph node relapse and pulmonary nodule) diagnosis.
Treatment The patient underwent chemotherapy according to the scheme of chemotherapy with a plateau + 5-FU: first cycle on May 12, 2014 and second cycle with 80% reduction by neutropenia on June 16, 2014.
Local radiation therapy at the level of the right axilla between September 2 and October 28, 2014, receiving a total of 39 Gy in 13 sessions.
It was necessary to discontinue treatment due to local infection.
Treatment management was complex and required several interruptions due to neutropenia, including a 20% reduction in the second cycle of chemotherapy.
Other toxicities presented by chemotherapy were nausea grade 1 and asthenia grade 3.
In July 2014, the patient was admitted to the ICU due to urinary sepsis caused by Escherichia coli, with progressive recovery during admission until discharge.
He received radiotherapy between September and October 2014, and it was necessary to perform a parenthesis of it for local infection, resolved after antibiotic treatment.
A reassessment CT was performed on December 15, 2015: Axillary lesion intervened, in which lymphadenopathies and soft tissue mass persist, although with evident decrease in the size of all lesions.
LSD pulmonary nodule decreased in size (7 mm maximum diameter).
Good evolution of previous pleuropulmonary pathology.
Partial response.
At these times, follow-up was decided in the event of non-progression.
Follow-up CT was repeated on April 27, 2015; a significant decrease in the size of the right axillary lymph node involvement was observed.
Moderate decrease in LSD nodule (5 mm maximum diameter).
Stability of centrolobular▁bronchiolitis.
Currently the patient is well, and it has been decided to follow him quarterly by imaging tests.
