Anamn 50-year-old woman, with a recent diagnosis of pending ductal carcinoma of the left nuclear grade, locally advanced (cT2N2M0), with negative hormone receptors, HER2 negative, proliferation index of treatment.
There is no other relevant background.
No drug allergies or usual treatment.
The patient came to the emergency room for a 10-day history of general▁malaise, muscle weakness and skin lesions.
He reported muscle weakness in the proximal region of the upper limbs, and later also in the lower limbs, with significant functional limitation (impossibility to raise the arms for petechiae or climb stairs), along with severe asthenia.
The clinical picture was associated with the appearance of erythematous papular lesions on the face, with subsequent dissemination to the region of the scott and back of the right hand.
He had no fever or other symptoms of probable infectious origin.
Physical features stable hemodynamically.
Afebril.
Physical examination revealed a hard erythematous tumor of approximately 4 cm in diameter in the left breast.
Limitation of strength of the proximal muscles of the upper limbs (III-IV/V) and lower limbs (IV/V).
The skin showed desquamative erythematous-violaceous lesions in the periocular region, front seal and nasogenian hand, and erythematous scaly lesions in the scott and back of the target seal.
He did not present nail lesions.
▁Complementary tests The patient is admitted to the Rheumatology Service where the following tests are performed: » Autoimmunity study: normal immunoglobulins.
Rheumatoid factor was negative.
Anti-CCP negative.
C4 and C3 were normal.
ANSDs, ANA, ANOEs, ANCAs, a-DNA, anti-B2GP and anticardiolipin were negative.
» Serology: HIV, HCV, HBV negative.
Positive IgG EBV.
IgG positive CMV (anticore HBV positive.
AgHB negative.
HBsAg negative).
» Tumor markers: CEA and Ca 15.3 were not high.
Mixed CT scan: heterogeneous mass, approximately 4 cm, in internal quadrants of the left breast.
Left axillary adenopathies suggestive of malignancy.
There are no pathological findings at the pulmonary, abdominal or pelvic level.
» Transthoracic echocardiography: no pathological findings.
» Electromyography: minimum denervation of the right deltoid muscle, compatible with inflammatory activity.
» Skin biopsy of the scott region: perianexial liquenoid dermatitis and superficial and deep perivascular dermatitis compatible with dermatomyositis.
» Muscle deltoid biopsy: skeletal muscle which highlights numerous necrotic muscle fibers in different stages of evolution.
Muscle fibers in regeneration and isolated mononuclear inflammatory cells are also observed.
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) with the antibody against histocompatibility antigen type 1 shows immunostaining in the periphery of some fibers.
The abnormalities are compatible with inflammatory myopathy.
Malignant melanoma, malignant and malignant
Treatment Treatment Treatment was initiated with high doses of corticoid, prednisone 60 mg daily, with some improvement of symptoms.
Because of the high possibility of the condition corresponding to dermatomyositis paraneo, it was decided to start neoadjuvant treatment specific for its oncological disease paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 during hospitalization and plateau AUC6.
cyclophosphamide was administered as a single agent due to clinical stability; the patient was discharged for outpatient treatment in four Onneo-Medical outpatient clinics, where she was treated with 12X cycles of chemotherapy and chemotherapy with excellent
CK values returned to normal two weeks after starting corticoid and chemotherapy treatment.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the breast, performed after completion of neoadjuvant treatment, shows a major partial response with a 11 mm tumor along with a small residual left axillary lymph node.
Currently, the patient is waiting for surgery for breast tumor.
