ANTECE▁ESTABLISHMENT DEL PACIENCIA DE Cigarette VARÓN 28 AÑOS systemically, a smoker of 5 daily smokers who attend the referral service by his orthodontist.
He has fixed orthodontic braces.
An oral breather detected in the oral history a large accumulation of bacterial plaque, gingival inflammation, bleeding and food impaction.
She does not perform proper oral hygiene and does not refer to using interproximal hygiene techniques.
As for the dental history, there is no absence, caries or previous restorations.
It presents numerous malformations, mainly located in the lower arch.
PASO 1 In the first visit marginal bone loss was detected in the bite wing radiographs and, therefore, a possible patient with periodontitis was suspected.
Complete periodontal study was performed and step 2.
PASO 2 As there are no local factors and there is insertion loss > 1 mm in more than one non-adjacent tooth (probing depths are > 4 mm in interproximal), periodontitis is confirmed as a case.
PASO 3A At this point, we establish the extension.
In this case, attachment loss affects more than 30 % of teeth (bag depths > 4 mm in more than 30 %), therefore, it would be a generalized periodontitis.
PASO 3B Next, we would distinguish whether it would be in stages I-II or III-IV.
Beginning with the severity, the patient presents insertion loss < 5 mm and radiographically detectable bone loss in the first root third, type I drills and no missing teeth, therefore, is a stage I or stage II patient.
PASO 3C To distinguish whether it is stage I or II, we fixed the percentage of bone loss, which in this case is < 15 %, and in the insertion loss is 1-2 mm.
Therefore, the patient could be diagnosed with generalized periodontitis stage I. PASO 4 since there are no previous records of the patient, bone loss is estimated according to age to determine the degree.
Bone loss could be estimated at 8 % (with periapical radiograph of the most affected tooth), that in a 28-year-old patient would give a result of 0.28, which would result in a grade A ARIST and a grade B smoking habit.
In addition, during this phase, the external fixation of the cords was performed due to the indication of orthododon gas.
