Anamnesis This is a 66-year-old woman with no known drug allergies and an active smoker of 7-8 cigarettes per day, with a cumulative index of 19 pack-years.
Irrespective of basic activities of daily living.
A family history of cancer in a mother who died of pancreatic neoplasia at age 89 and a father who died of prostate cancer at age 79.
As a pathological antecedent to be highlighted, he presented a cured hepatitis B virus infection.
There were no previous surgical interventions.
Her oncological history began in July 2018 when she began progressive clinical signs of early fullness with postprandial epigastric pain, without referring clear dysphagia, as well as associated weight loss of 3 kg.
The patient finally consulted in a private clinic in January 2019, starting a diagnostic study.
Subsequently, the patient was transferred to our center to complete the study and treatment.
Physical examination revealed a tender, non-painful abdomen, tender abdomen, not palpable mass, and no visceromegaly.
Peripheral lymphadenopathies were not observed.
The rest of the physical examination was anodyne.
The patient had a CRE 1.
▁Complementary tests In the initial analytical, with determination of tumor markers, an elevation of Ca 19.9 of 1,246 U/ml and CEA values within normal limits was evidenced.
Abdominal computed tomography (alcohol) showed diffuse thickening of the gastric fundus wall extending to the gastroesophageal junction, as well as visualization of small retroperitoneal lymph nodes.
Fiberoptic endoscopy was performed with 2019 samples, which showed a vegetating neoformation in the gastroesophageal junction, located 35 cm from the dental arch (lower esophageal body, lesser esophageal curvature), with extension to cardia.
Pathological Anatomy was positive for moderately differentiated▁tubulopapillary adenocarcinoma with positive Helicobacter pylori infection, with PDL-1 negative, HER-2 negative, MSS negative and Epstein-negative virus.
In the echoendoscopic exam (2019), invasion of all the layers of the esophageal wall was visualized, as well as diverse soft adenopathies of malignancy.
The lesion was adjacent to the aorta artery and it was not possible to assess the presence of invasion (staging uT4N1).
The extension study by PET-CT (shoulder junction 2019) showed hypermetabolic thickening of the▁esophagogastric junction, from minor esophagus to stomach wall level 183.
Adenopathies were observed near the gastric wall tumor, in the territory of the left gastric artery and celiac trunk, with SUVmax 7.8 suggesting malignancy.
A 7 mm lymph node was also found in the left supraclavicular space with weak uptake, indeterminate; however, complementary techniques were recommended to rule out its involvement.
Puncture of this adenopathy was performed, resulting negative for malignant cells.
Finally, a tapered towards the proximal gastroduodenal lesser curvature 2019 was performed, which showed irregular tapering of the mucosa at the level of the distal esophagus in a 3 cm course that continued caudally to the cardia.
Diagnosis by PET scans, the patient was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophagic junction Siewert II extending to the gastric fundus, stage III, and echoTC distance1.
A left supraclavicular puncture hypercap by PET-CT was performed, and the FNA was negative for malignancy.
Treatment Perioperative chemotherapy was initiated in a clinical way with FLOT scheme for 4 cycles from 02/06/2019 to 03/23/2019.
During the course of treatment, she required a reduction in the dose of 5-fluorouracil (after the first cycle) and withdrawal of leucovorin (after the second cycle) due to gastrointestinal toxicity and primary treatment for stimulant prophylaxis.
PET-CT reassessment (March 2019), after completion of neoadjuvant treatment, showed reduction of mural thickening and normalization of glucose metabolism.
At the same time, the patient had a favorable response at the peritumoral adenopatic level with total normalization of metabolism, without identifying the appearance of new lesions.
The control fibrogastroscopy (Abbre 2019) showed a deep linear ulceration in the lower third of the esophagus, allowing biopsy showing mild to malignant colitis.
A surgical procedure was performed on May 7, 2019 using laparoscopic cholecystectomy type Lewis with lymphadenectomy D2, without immediate or late complications.
Placement of a feeding cyst and cystostomy.
Six days after the intervention, the patient started oral diet, well received medication.
She was discharged home with oral and enteral artificial nutrition.
The surgical specimen was sent for pathological study with definitive result of pathological complete response, ypT0N0.
Isolation of 32 lymph nodes without evidence of malignancy.
Tumor regression was 0 (complete response).
Re-inclusion of the specimen was performed to confirm the absence of residual lesion, as well as the use of▁immunohistochemical techniques.
Chemotherapy is currently performed in the first cycle of adjuvant therapy, following the same scheme of FLOT for 4 cycles, beginning on May 30, 2015.
In the last analytical control performed, a complete serological response was evidenced, with Ca 19.9 of 6.2 U/ml.
