Anamnesis A 21-year-old male with a history of akinesia and stenosis-type congenital disorder affecting the lumbar spine, who was operated on and suffered from congenital malformation of the lentiginous spine at the age of 16.
Left hydrocele in childhood resolved without treatment.
No drug allergies or other relevant backgrounds.
She has no family history of cancer.
▁Oncological history: initially, the patient consulted in Urology because of a mass in the left testicle of 2 years of evolution with slow growth.
Physical examination revealed a mass in the anterior superior pole of the left testicle.
EC 0.
Rest without changes of interest.
▁Complementary tests' Testicular ultrasound was requested, which showed two areas, one more peripheral in the upper pole, which was the largest, with about 2 cm in average diameter, along with another in the area nearest to the center of the testicle.
» In the complete analytical highlights: 20.3 g/dl, hematocrit 59.9%, hemoglobin 6,550,000.
Alpha-fetoprotein 77.2 ng/ml, beta-HCG 100.4 mU/ml, LDH 392 IU/l.
» The patient is referred to Hematology for the study of polyglobulia and programmed for radical orchiectomy after▁cryopreservation of semen.
» CT scan revealed no evidence of pelvic lymph node involvement or metastasis (N0M0).
Diagnosis seminomatous germ cell carcinoma of testis pT1N0M0, S0, stage IA, subgroup of good prognosis.
Treatment Radical inguinal orchiectomy was performed. Pathology reported mixed malignant teratoma with areas of embryonal carcinoma, yolk-sac, choriocarcinoma and intratubular germ cell neoplasia pT1.
Initially, due to its good prognosis, monitoring was proposed.
In the postoperative analytical highlights hemoglobin 18 g/dl, with negative tumor markers, being S0.
At 14 months, at the control CT, at least two retroperitoneal lymph nodes measuring between 2 and 3 cm are observed.
Due to the suspicion of recurrence, treatment with four cycles of BEP scheme (bleomycin, and cisplatin-inducedtopy) is proposed.
The patient received the four cycles of treatment, showing very good tolerance (nausea grade I, asthenia grade II, neutropenia grade II and thrombopenia grade II).
Two weeks after the last cycle, the patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) after an episode of seizures with cardiopulmonary arrest.
An urgent CT scan showed an apparently unique lesion in the posterior fossa, highly vascularized, suggesting metastasis.
Other possibilities could not be ruled out.
Besides tetraventicular hydrocephalia.
Lumbar puncture was performed, CSF biochemistry showed elevated protein 118 mg/dl and blood glucose 154 mg/dl, finding the rest of parameters within normal limits.
A CSF sample was sent for cytology, with negative results.
A differential diagnosis was made with metastases to the second primary tumor.
Radiotherapy and Neurosurgery were mentioned, and it was decided to wait for the MRI result to decide the therapeutic approach.
MRI showed a heterogeneous lesion of approximately 28 x 32 x 37 mm in the AP, T and CC axes, respectively, located in the midline, inferior to the fourth ventricle, with a similar appearance to tumors of germinal origin second primary tumor.
No other images suggesting metastasis in the rest of the study.
In addition, the patient presented edema of the trunk, tetraventricular hydrocephalia and cervical syringomyelia secondary to mass effect injury.
Laboratory tests and tumor markers at admission were normal.
A first intervention was performed, which was incomplete, according to MRI, leaving tumor remnants, with focuses healed inside.
It was decided to perform a second intervention one week later, after which hydrocephalia improved but in the lower side of the fourth ventricle pseudonodular persistence was observed which markedly enhanced after the administration of intravenous contrast 11 mm.
On day + 10 of the first surgery the patient was readmitted to the ICU in coma with a Glasgow scale score of 4, in the urgent CT of skull identifies hydrocephalia and signs of transtentorial ventriculoperitoneal shunting.
After one month in the ICU, the patient climbed to a stable floor with a Glasgow score of 15/15.
Complications during their stay in the ICU include colonization by Acinetobacter baumanii and dysphagia secondary to complete paralysis of the right vocal cord, which requires the placement of a nasogastric tube.
The definitive pathological anatomy is mesenchymal tissue with prominent vascularization compatible with cerebellar hemangioblastoma.
During the following months, the patient improved progressively, walked with a walker and the nasogastric tube could be removed and could be fed by itself.
The patient is still being followed up for testicular tumor, presenting in the last CT a growing teratoma (25 months after orchiectomy) that will be referred for surgical intervention.
He was referred to genetic counselling for suspected Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, whose result is pending.
