Anamnesis Female patient, 56 years old, active smoker until diagnosis, with a cumulative tobacco consumption of 20 pack-years.
In January 2016 she began with cough symptoms with purulent sputum without fever, orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, initially treated as a respiratory infection with bronchodilators and antibiotics.
The patient had a poor clinical course with the measures taken, so she came to the emergency department of her reference hospital on February 9, 2018 for severe dyspnea.
After the diagnosis of▁SVCS secondary to a large right suprahiliary mass, respiratory superinfection and global respiratory failure with acidosis requiring ventilatory support (if necessary) for emergency mechanical ventilation in the Department of Invasive▁Pneumology of our MVIC center.
The next morning, we contacted the Pathological Anatomy, who biopsied the supraclavicular lymph node block, histologically confirming a microcytic lung carcinoma.
Location TA 128/72 mm Hg.
HR 120 bpm.
Sat.
97 % received conservative treatment with NIV with 50% FiO2.
Aware, oriented and collaborative.
Poor peripheral perfusion, common bile and acra.
Important work of breathing, tachypnea and accessory muscle use.
A large right supraclavicular lymphadenopathy of stony consistency, fixed to deep planes.
Pulmonary consolidation with roncus ̄s and crepitants left base.
Cardiac arrest with cardiac rhythmic noises.
Lower extremities without edema or signs of deep venous thrombosis.
▁Complementary tests » Biochemistry: normal sodium, potassium, urea and creatinine, creatine kinase 186 U/l, troponin I 6.1 ng/l, CRP 32.54 mg/dl.
» Blood count: hemoglobin 15.7 g/dl, platelets 252,000/mcl, leukocytes 23,000/mcl, 87 % polymorphonuclear.
» Coagulation: prothrombin rate 50 %.
» Basal arterial gas: pO2 25.4 mm Hg, pCO2 70.7 mm Hg, SatO2 43.6 %, pH 7.287.
» Control expenditure on NIMV: pO2 138 mm Hg, pCO2 55.2 mm Hg, pH 7.38, base excess 3.2, bicarbonate 29 mmol/l.
» Electrocardiogram: sinus tachycardia at 120 bpm.
» Portable chest X-ray: alveolar infiltrate in the left pulmonary base, with air bronchogram, suggestive of pulmonary consolidation.
▁Right suprahilar mass.
» Chest CT: large right suprahiliary mass below the mediastinal structures extending to the contralateral side and to the supraclavicular region, with lymphadenopathies in the right pathological range of the lung, all suggestive of bilateral hiliar neoplasia.
Cavitated mass in the right upper lobe and pulmonary nodules in the left upper lobe, suggestive of metastasis.
Alveolar infiltrates with areas of consolidation in the left lower lobe and consolidation, as well as in the middle lobe, of probable acute infectious-inflammatory origin.
Abundant collateral circulation was observed in the left costal wall and secondary to the collapse of the inferior vena cava by the mass previously described.
» Needle aspiration biopsy of the lesion in the right supraclavicular region: small cell neuroendocrine lung carcinoma (small cell carcinoma).
Diagnosis Superior vena cava syndrome secondary to microcytic lung carcinoma, extensive disease due to supraclavicular involvement extending to the cervical and axillary regions.
Treatment Following pathological anatomy biopsy, patients managed with radiation-induced lung cancer managed with a regimen of 8 mg/g of cisplatin chemotherapy regimen (e. g., chemotherapy-treated, microgligent chemotherapy) in the event of failure
Total dose for body surface area 1.5 m2:
The patient does not require any additional treatment and remains hospitalized in the▁Pneumology Department with progressive improvement of the general condition and less dependence on non-invasive mechanical ventilation. The patient can be discharged after 14 days of hospital admission,
A CT scan of the skull, chest and abdomen was performed during admission, showing a slight reduction in mediastinal mass (7 days after the start of treatment).
On an outpatient basis, PET-CT showed local and distant metastatic lymph node involvement, as well as hypermetabolic retroperitoneal lesion suggestive of metastasis.
The patient came to the outpatient clinic on the date corresponding to the second cycle complaining of dyspnea and cough, with leukocytosis and neutrophilia in the laboratory, requiring hospital admission for respiratory failure.
Due to the suspicion of nosocomial infection, respiratory therapy and broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment are established.
The patient had a poor outcome in the following hours contact with▁Pneumology and was decided to perform non-invasive mechanical ventilation until the radiological reassessment of the disease.
A CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed a decrease in the size of the mediastinal mass and right hiliar, but as a consequence necrosis was observed with destruction of the right tracheal wall, which communicated with a 4 cm peripheral cavity.
There was also a response of two pulmonary nodules with cavitation and presence of air-fluid level inside.
The appearance of consolidation of the air with bronchogram in the right lower lobe and multiple centrilobular nodules and a tree-in-bud pattern predominantly in the lower lobes, compatible with an infectious process of the associated space.
Given the poor short-term prognosis due to the changes that occur at CT and the patient's physical suffering despite the measures implemented, NIV was removed and sedation was initiated, finally resulting in exitus.
