Anamnesis This is a 47-year-old male with no relevant medical or surgical history.
Do not take any medication.
Natural from London and works as an English teacher.
His father died of pulmonary amyloidosis at age 74 and his father of renal cancer at age 70.
In 2010 she consulted for a progressive increase in abdominal▁perimeter of 12 months of evolution, associated with epigastric pain and feeling of early fullness after ingestion.
He had a loss of 15 kilograms of weight in the last 6 months.
Physical examination revealed a Karnosky index of 90%, good general condition and an anodyne cardiorespiratory auscultation.
The most notable finding was the semiology of moderate ascites.
▁Complementary tests A complete blood count, biochemistry and hemostasis were requested, and only a dehydrogenated lactate (600 U/L) and creatine kinase (280 U/L) elevation were observed.
Serology for hepatopos(B and C) viruses and human immunodeficiency virus were also performed, both negative and ascitic fluid analysis positive for malignant cellularity.
In the study with a computerized axial tomography thoracic, abdominal and pelvic (TAC-TAP), where it was observed a large mass of cystic appearance, multiple implants of peritoneal ascites, as well as a large amount of intraperitoneal fluid suggestive.
It was completed with positron emission tomography, showing the large abdominal mass already known without metabolic activity.
Diagnosis Finally, a biopsy was performed by needle puncture of the lesion, reaching the diagnosis of a fusiform cell tumor.
Immunohistochemical study showed positivity for vimentin, actin, CD-117, CD-34 and isolated S-100.
Location for desmin.
The cell proliferation index assessed by Ki-67 was 5%.
Therefore, the▁immunohistochemical profile suggested the diagnosis of a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).
Treatment Due to the large tumor volume, it was decided to start neoadjuvant treatment with imatinib 400 milligrams a day and later evaluation at 2 months for possible surgical rescue.
The initial tolerance to imatinib was adequate, it only presented mild edema of the pancreas, but ascites did not subside and required the placement of a permanent peritoneal drainage due to the repeated paracentesis required.
The patient was discharged home after two months of treatment.
Abdominal CT evaluation was performed where the large peritoneal mass persisted, with minimal reduction of the cystic component and decrease of peritoneal involvement, which supposed a poor response both clinical and radiological.
With this, it was decided in a multidisciplinary committee of Digestive Surgery to perform an exploratory laparotomy, where the large mass of 50x30 cm (cm) occupying the entire abdomen was observed and its origin was the greater curvature.
In this way, during the same surgical act radical resection of the mass was performed.
Surgical biopsy revealed a high-risk GIST tumor, with a maximum diameter of 21 cm.
Necrosis areas were 30% and Ki67 cell proliferation index was 3%.
In the control CT-TAP after the intervention, the peritoneal mass disappeared, but an increase in the density of intraperitoneal fat and paracolic droplets was observed in relation to peritoneal carcinomatosis.
Therefore, there was a clear indication for treatment with pseudoadjuvant imatinib, due to its large size, despite gastric location and low rate of mitosis.
Given the poor initial response and persistence of disease onset, imatinib 800 mg is started. After surgery and with the initiation of high dose treatment, the patient experienced a great clinical improvement.
Ascites and epigastric pain completely disappeared and progressively gained weight.
Tolerance to treatment at higher doses was also excellent.
The only notable incidence was the appearance of edema.
From the analytical point of view, the thyroid profile remained stable.
After 16 weeks of treatment, a complete disappearance of peritoneal involvement was observed by CT-TAP, but no evidence of disease was found on the imaging test.
We continued treatment with similar tolerance to the previous one.
Due to the atypical presentation, we requested the mutational status.
The results were negative c-kit mutation and positive exon 18 PDGFR-A mutation, with pD842V mutation.
Currently, after 54 weeks of imatinib, there is no evidence of disease.
