Anamnesis Female patient, 68 years old, resident in Spain for more than 5 years, with a history of hypertension, dyslipidemia and hypothyroidism treated with olmesartan, atorvastatin and levothyroxine.
She had no family history or previous infections of interest, nor toxic habits.
Located in January 2018 as an emergency due to painless urgencies.
The patient reported pruritus, jaundice, acholia and choluria of two weeks duration, with progressive worsening in the anamnesis by equipment and systems.
He did not report fever.
The patient suffered a painful tumour in the left side of the foot.
The clinical picture described above led to hospital admission for diagnostic study and treatment.
During the diagnostic process, the patient presented clinical worsening with severe epigastric pain radiating to the belt and oral intolerance for nausea and vomiting.
Physical examination revealed a tumor located in the upper third of the external twin, hard, not adhered to deep planes, and painful in the proximal third of the external twin.
Abdominal examination was painful epigastrically, without peritonitis and without evidence of masses or enlargement.
Investigations Analytically, liver and pancreatic profile was abnormal: total bilirubin 11.8 mg/dl, AST 161 U/l, ALT 105 U/l, alkaline glycosylated glycosylated haemoglobin 964 U/dl L
The imaging study began with an abdominal ultrasound that showed a solid mass of 5 cm in the head and uncinate body of the pancreas that conditioned dilatation of the intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile duct, as well as a 6 cm suggestive malignancy in the left liver lobe.
With initial suspicion of pancreatic adenocarcinoma, the study was extended with a computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis that confirmed both lesions without evidence of other distant lesions.
At the same time, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to characterize the lesion in the left lower limb, which revealed a soft tissue tumor with extensive contact with the lateral edge of the soleus muscle of probable sarcomatous.
With the suspicion that the three lesions described belonged to the same histological line, puncture aspiration with needle (AFF) guided by echoendoscopic examination of the pancreatic and hepatic lesions was performed, as well as FNAB of the left limb.
The result was compatible with▁lymphoproliferative process of plasmablastic differentiation (CD 138+), without being able to establish a definitive diagnosis in the absence of material for▁immunohistochemical study.
The case was presented in a multidisciplinary tumor committee, and the differential diagnosis between plasmablastic lymphoma, plasmablastic myeloma and diffuse B lymphoma ALK+ was proposed.
It was decided to perform an excision of the lesion of the left lower limb to obtain more histological material, with definitive pathological diagnosis of plasmablastic lymphoma CD138, MUM-1, kappa and lambda CD30 CD20 positive, with negativity for ALK.
Proliferation index (ki67) was 80-90 %.
Serology was negative for HIV and other viruses analyzed.
A beta-2 microglobulin of 5.3 mg/dl was observed.
Diagnosis The patient was diagnosed with stage IV plasmablastic lymphoma due to liver, pancreatic and soft tissue involvement, with a ki67 of 80-90 %.
In addition, she presented obstructive jaundice due to compression of the pancreatic mass and acute pancreatitis as secondary complication.
Treatment of the clinical picture, a plastic biliary stent cholangiopancreatography was placed by endoscopic▁retrograde cholangiopancreatography, which was replaced by a metallic biliary stent when faced with recurrent stenosis of pancreatitis.
Despite this, the patient had a torpid evolution, dyspnea secondary to bilateral pleural effusion and poor analgesic control secondary to a marked worsening of pancreatitis.
The clinical picture was accompanied by vomiting due to compression of the stomach by pancreatic cysts up to 17 cm.
He required third-step WHO analgesic treatment for symptomatic control and depletive treatment with high requirements of medicament therapy.
Imaging studies performed to control complications of pancreatitis also showed progression of▁lymphoproliferative disease, both at the level of previous lesions and the appearance of a new lesion in a precaval location.
Due to the absence of clinical improvement after optimization of supportive treatment, and in the event of a suspected worsening secondary to progression of the patient with prednisone 1 mg base dose, chemotherapy was initiated early in February 2018top dementia with 50 mg/day
As complication after the first cycle of treatment, the patient developed cardiac arrest secondary to fluid overload, which responded adequately to diuretics until resolution.
At the same time, pancreatitis was resolved with less need for analgesia and progressive oral tolerance was restarted without complications.
The second cycle of treatment was administered in March 2018, maintaining a previous dose reduction, with better tolerance, with neutropenia grade 4, thrombocytopenia grade 2, anemia grade 2, mucositis grade 2 and Clostridium difficile-related diarrhoea as the most relevant toxicity.
Rehabilitation for functional recovery was also initiated due to complications resulting from prolonged hospitalization.
Currently, after significant clinical improvement, CS 2, full-dose chemotherapy has been administered with good tolerance, and a partial response by pancreatic iconographic assessment has been presented during the third phase of the reevaluation.
Peripancreatic strictures are found in regression, with normalization of the pancreatic and hepatic profiles.
