1.
Patient's problem Female patient, 52 years old, comes to the consultation for having swollen gums and notice tooth mobility.
A smoker of 2 cigarettes/day (in the first 10 years of smoking habits smoked 20 cigarettes/day).
She was diagnosed and treated for breast cancer 10 years ago.
She currently reports controlled hypertension.
Antiestrogen (Tamoxifen 20 mg) and beta-blocker (Atenol 50 mg) are administered daily.
He has received numerous restorative dental treatments and has dental absences.
Family history of periodontal disease.
2.
Diagnosis A thick biotype with erythematous margins and edematous margins was observed in the clinical inspection, in addition to presenting generalized gingival recesses.
A plaque index (PI) of 83 % and a bleeding index (SI) of 78,67 % were quantified.
Probing depth (PD) of 7-15 mm in the four sextants.
Radiographic examination revealed moderate horizontal generalized bone loss with severe vertical bone defects located in several teeth.
Microbiological analysis indicated high loads of T. forsythia, F. gingivalis and T. denticola.
At dental level, a fractured restoration was observed in 4.5 and a vertical fracture in 2.5, as well as the absence of multiple teeth in posterior sextants.
He reported a posterior collapse of bite, bruxism, type II fremitus in 1.2, and dental interferences.
Advanced chronic periodontitis (generalized stage III, grade C) and periodontitis associated with endodontic lesion were diagnosed in 1.4 (combined endodontic periodontal lesion).
There were clinical and radiographic signs indicating the presence of secondary occlusal trauma.
3.
Objective of treatment Taking into account the reason for consultation of the patient, the main objective was to return the oral health to the patient.
The replacement of missing teeth was also an objective of the treatment in order to improve its masticatory function.
4.
▁Modifying factors The main etiological factor of periodontitis in this patient is the bacterial biofilm.
The time and amount of exposure to smoking can be considered one of the risk factors in the development of periodontal disease.
Dental malocclusion and malposition, secondary occlusal trauma and other local factors such as open contacts, root proximity and anatomical features are contributing factors to the development of periodontal disease.
5.
Prognosis for the remaining teeth was determined by using the following formula: 1.7, 1.4, 1.2, 4.8 and 2.5; doubtful for 1.1, 2.3, 2.6, 3.7, 3.1, 3.2 and 4.5; and good prognosis
6.
Treatment plan 6.1 Systemic phase First, the patient was encouraged to stop smoking and monitor hypertension in coordination with her primary care physician.
6.2▁Periodontal hygiene phase Oral hygiene instructions were given and supragingival hygiene was performed.
ARR of the four quadrants was performed, along with the administration of Metronidazole 500 mg every 8 hours for seven days starting after the last session of ARR.
In addition, 0.12 % chlorhexidine rinses were recommended for 15 days.
Selective occlusal adjustments were made and a higher-load splint was delivered.
A root canal treatment was performed in tooth 1.4.
6.3 Re-evaluation A 27 % PI and 16 % SI were recorded in the periodontal re-evaluation.
There was a generalized reduction in PS, with the presence of residual periodontal pockets of 4 to 11 mm.
The patient was re-instructed in oral hygiene habits.
A new session of ARR was performed before starting the surgical phase.
6.4▁Periodontal surgical phase planning was: •▁Periodontal regeneration in 1.4, 1.3, 1.2, 1.1 and extraction of 1.7.
• Extraction of 4.8.
•▁Guided tissue regeneration in 2.3 and 2.4 and alveolar preservation in 2.5.
In the periodontogram of the 2nd and 3rd sextants, bags of 4 to 8 mm are observed.
Papillary and intrasulcular preservation incisions were made by buccal and palatal of 1.1 to 2.6 and rectangular distal wedge to 2.6.
A full-thickness flap was raised and tooth 2.5 was extracted, removing all granulation tissue from the area.
Alveoli were filled with mineralized allograft and a collagen membrane was placed.
Subsequently, infraosseous defects were filled with proteins derived from the enamel matrix in combination with a mineralized allograft.
Polytetrafluoroethylene was sutured using an internal vertical mattress and simple stitches.
•▁Periodontal regeneration in 3.1 and 3.2.
The teeth were ferulized lingually.
The periodontal chart of the 5th shows sextant periodontal pockets of 4 to 12 mm.
The initial surgical approach consisted of preservation of a modified papilla, detachment of a flap full thickness by buccal and lingual, and removal of granulation tissue (AF) 9).
The infraosseous defects were filled with a combination of proteins derived from the enamel matrix (Emdogain®) and a mineralized allograft.
It was sutured with 6/0 polypropylene with modified internal vertical mattresses and simple stitches.
6.5 Reassessment (II) 6 months after the last periodontal regeneration surgery a complete periodontogram was performed showing stability and clinical improvement in periodontal tissues.
In each of the regenerative surgeries, there was a reduction in PS due to attachment loss, as well as remarkable radiographic bone filling.
6.6 Rehabilitation phase The patient was rehabilitated by placing dental implants in positions 2.5, 3.6, 4.5 and 4.6.
7.
Maintenance Assessment of the patient's periodontal risk indicated a high risk, advising an interval of maintenance visits every 3 months.
After two years of follow-up, along with regular maintenance, clinical and radiographic stability of the periodontal status of the patient can be observed.
