Anamnesis This is a 75-year-old woman at the time of first consultation with a diagnosis of hypothyroidism (2017), with no known allergies, no toxic habits or cardiovascular risk factors, and relevant personal history of hypothyroidism on treatment.
The most important medical or oncological family history was a deceased mother of colorectal carcinoma at 70 years of age.
Her oncological history began in January 2017 when she consulted the gastroenterology department due to a dyspepsia of several months of evolution.
Abdominal ultrasound and complete laboratory analysis were performed, with no significant findings except for elevation of GGT and FA. For this reason, 31 mm of lesions were requested in gastroscopy which did not show secondary pathology and abdominal computed tomography (CT) V-8 segments.
The findings were confirmed by magnetic resonance cholangiography (MRI) and liver MRI, which confirmed the presence of vesicular lesions with secondary deposits greater than 47 mm and the presence of lesions of undetermined nature.
During the diagnostic process, a nodule was located in the lower quadrant of the left breast requesting mammography and ultrasound which showed a nodule with a thick smear showing malignancy (BIRADS 4c), so biopsy was performed with biopsy.
She underwent surgery in July 2017 by means of a wide quadrantectomy with free margins, with selective biopsy of the centineal ganglion (BSGC), identifying 2 lymph nodes, one of them positive by immunohistochemistry for cytokeratins.
▁Definitive PA is: differentiated ductal carcinoma 1.3 cm, moderately differentiated, grade II, estrogen receptors (ER) 95 %, progesterone receptors (PR) 90 %, Ki 67 12 %, HER-2 negative.
TNM pT1cpN0(i+)(sn).
The patient persisted with symptoms of dyspepsia and abdominal pain, so she was admitted in July 2017 to the gastroenterology department and later on to seek medical advice.
Physical examination at admission revealed an acceptable general condition, EC 0.
There were no lymph nodes in the cervical or supraclavicular regions.
Breast asymmetry with inferointern quadrant scar in the left breast with no complication data.
No nodules or axillary lymphadenopathies were detected.
No masses or visceromegaly were found.
The rest of the examination showed no findings.
▁Complementary tests were performed during admission to the physician's office: » Tumor markers: negative.
» Hepatotropic virus serologies: negative.
»▁Oncological positron emission tomography (PET): a metabolically unspecific liver lesion known in segment II.
No other significant findings.
» Hepatic ultrasound: focal liver lesion in segment II with respect to sepsis remains malignant, with behavior of necrotic or fibrotic lesion (metastasis, cholangiocarcinoma, fibrotic lesion) that has initially grown slightly smaller lesions.
» Needle aspiration biopsy (FNAC) and core biopsy: connective tissue with extensive coagulation necrosis, inflammatory infiltrate and fibrosis.
Abstract: inconclusive cytology.
Diagnosis of ductal carcinoma of the left breast pT1c pN0 (i+) and suspected metastasis in the left lobe (a single lesion called hepatic lobule and other two minor lesions).
Treatment It was decided to present a multidisciplinary tumor committee to assess the resection of the hepatic LOE and complete the pathological study.
She underwent surgery on the 21st of August 2016, with resection of two lesions in hepatic V-VI segment and laparoscopic liver segmentectomy II-III, being discharged without complications.
▁Definitive PA of hepatic lesions was defined as follows: hepatic segments subconstantiates with necrotic nodules hepatic▁eosinophils with presence in necrotic material of degenerated eggs.
No signs of malignancy were seen.
Finally, in view of the AP findings, serology for▁parasites was requested, with no positive results for hepatic Fasciola, so he began treatment with trilabendazole in November 2017, with good response to the same toxicities.
In the directed anamnesis, the patient reported being a regular consumer of wild beers.
After liver surgery, the patient began adjuvant radiotherapy (RT) between 09/11/2017 and 10/2017, with a dose of 50 Gy in 25 sessions at 2 Gy/session in the left breast.
She has started adjuvant hormonal treatment with which they are currently maintained.
