A 12-year-old girl presented with dizziness and instability of 24 hours duration, with a sensation of spinning objects of hours of evolution.
Left ear pain and left otorrhea
Fever of 38.5oC.
Nausea and vomiting.
Cephalea holocraneal without photophobia or phobia.
You have been treated with Augmentine for 3 days.
On examination, Otoscopy OD, normal OI, hyperemic tunication with microperforation drains purulent content.
No pavilion detachment or mastoid reaction was observed.
No spontaneous nystagmus or left-sided positive MOC gaze was evoked Romberg, Fukuda with left lateralization.
Analytical: Leukocytosis with neutrophilia.
PCR 184.
Urgent petrous CT scan (images will be attached) showing acute left otomastoiditis complicated by petrous apicitis and acute focal thrombosis of the sigmoid venous sinus suggestive of ipsilateral hemitentorial meningitis (with signs).
Sample is taken for otorrhea culture.
Lumbar puncture was also performed, ruling out meningitis (glucose 58, proteins 10, leukocytes 1).
Under local anesthesia and sedation, myringotomy was performed with purulent content aspiration and placement of transtympanic drainage, as well as intravenous antibiotic administration (vancomycin, ceftima and metronidazole).
Heparin is not given at first because the child is being studied for thrombophilias and▁pediatricians, assessing risk/benefit, prefer not to use it.
The patient was discharged with positive otic▁exudate to Streptococcus pyogenes sensitive to penicillin, and the same was prescribed.
After 4 days, the patient did not evolve properly, and continued to drain purulent content, with headache as such.
For all this it was decided to request urgent MR (images will be attached) informing as: left acute otomastoiditis complicated with cerebellitis, meningitis and focal thrombosis of the sigmoid venous sinus.
Given the magnetic resonance imaging findings, it was decided to perform emergency mastoidectomy, closure of a spontaneous CSF fistula, and antibiotic switch to Cefotaxima 2g every 8 hours.
Images of the surgery will be attached and explained.
The patient remains asymptomatic after one week of surgery.
She had no headache or dizziness and no otorrhea, so she was discharged.
Two months later, the patient was seen in the outpatient clinic and was asymptomatic, with an in situ and permeable DTT, with MR with postsurgical changes of left otomastoiditis without signs of total sigmoid sinus thrombosis.
