Anamnesis A 61-year-old male, ex-smoker up to 6 months before diagnosis, for more than 45 years (IPA 50), and without other relevant background, who comes to his left-sided dysphagia associated with dysphagia.
Initially, a diagnostic judgment of a cervical infectious process is made in the context of otalgia and recent dental implants, but in the absence of improvement with antibiotic treatment, the patient is referred to endocrinology to start the study.
Cervical ultrasound showed multiple left cervical lymph nodes up to 2.7 cm.
Normal thyroids with two well-defined solid nodules.
Ultrasound guided needle aspiration (FNA) was performed to obtain samples,▁concluding the pathological anatomy report: metastasis of squamous cell carcinoma.
The patient is then evaluated by the Department of Otorhinolaryngology. A fibroscopy showed a caudal lesion in the left epipalal region extending to the soft palate and submucosa of the hemipalal region.
A tonsil biopsy was performed with a pathological submucosal anatomy for poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma, human papilloma virus (HPV) and p16 positive.
The extension study was completed with a cervicofacial CT where a tumor-like mass in the left lingual tonsil of approximately 26 mm, suggestive of epidermoid carcinoma, was described.
Metastatic adenopathies in both internal jugular chains, more numerous and larger left in levels IIA, IIB, III, IV, VA and VB, also observing several of them with necrosis.
CT scan of the oropharynx was performed in June and pelvis as an extension study with no data on distant dissemination, confirming the patient's diagnosis: squamous cell carcinoma of HPV+ p16+ IVA (cT4N2M0).
Presented in the head and neck tumor committee of our hospital, it was decided to propose conservative treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
The patient underwent radiotherapy with 50 Gy on tumor bed and lymph node drainage chains with margin, with over-impression of primary tumor and lymph nodes affected up to 70 Gy.
Concurrently, the patient received chemotherapy with weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2 completing a total of 6 cycles.
In a subsequent reevaluation with fibroscopy, the patient presented a complete response.
At the CT evaluation of response, the primary lesion has decreased in size and density.
In addition, a marked decrease was observed, with almost complete disappearance of laterocervical adenocarcinomas pre-existing, observing only millimetric lymph nodes, with post-treatment changes in chains IIa and IIb, and
The patient is followed up and, on a reassessment CT in September 2016, presents mediastinal relapse with prevascular adenopathies, anterior to the right brachiocephalic trunk, upper right paratracheal, right paratracheal window.
Mediastinoscopy was performed with biopsy, which confirmed the presence of metastasis of squamous cell carcinoma p16+.
Treatment should be continued for every other week until the first line of therapy is started, but with a final toxicity (AUC-5) and cetuximab (400 mg/m2 first week, followed by 250 mg/m2 weekly)
A reassessment CT scan of March 2017 showed progression of mediastinal disease, which led to the initiation of the second line treatment with nivolumab, achieving a complete radiological response.
Physical examination revealed that the patient presented with extensive erythematous-desquamative plaques on the trunk, upper limbs and lower limbs, and presented with flushing at the beginning of the 33 cycle of nivolumab.
There are no other skin lesions of interest.
Otherwise, the patient reported good general condition and EC 0.
▁Complementary blood tests were normal.
Diagnosis Psoriasiform eruption by anti-PD-1.
Treatment The patient is managed conservatively with corticoid therapy. The patient is started on prednisone 50 mg in descending order.
» Chlobetasol cream.
Removal of the cyst due to the appearance of grade 3 cutaneous toxicity and complete radiological response was decided.
The patient continues with periodic reviews and, currently, 6 months after drug withdrawal, remains in complete response.
