Anamnesis This is a 78-year-old male, married, with four children.
The patient had a medical history of type II diabetes mellitus that controlled with diet.
She underwent bilateral inguinal hernia surgery in 2005.
He's not a smoker or drinker.
She has no history of previous transfusions.
No family history of interest.
Do not take your regular medication.
As a result of diffuse abdominal discomfort and constitutional syndrome with weight loss (12-14 kg in 3-4 months), with hypoxia and asthenia of three months duration, she comes to the emergency department referred by her primary care physician.
Abdominal ultrasound showed space-occupying lesions in the liver parenchyma, with bilobar distribution, compatible with metastasis, and it was decided to admit the patient for study.
Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen revealed stenosis in the splenic angle of the colon in addition to the hepatic lesions.
Placement of a tapered lesion was completed, where an infrancheable vegetating, stenotic lesion was visualized 40 cm from the anal margin. A metallic prosthesis was placed in this location.
The tumor lesion was biopsied, with well differentiated adenocarcinoma histology, with normal microsatellite instability proteins, RAS/BRAF native.
Tumor markers were Ca 19.94,740 U/ml (normal value [VN] 0-37), antigen decay-derived, (CEA) 9.375 ng/ml (VN 05).
The patient was evaluated with Ontario Medical Center, and systemic treatment with XELOX was initiated (capecitabine 1000 mg/m2/12 h days 1-14, oxaliplatin 130 mg/m2 d1, every 21 days).
Tolerance to treatment is acceptable, with asthenia grade 1 during the first two days, grade 1 diarrhoea that controls with loperamide, and grade 1 neurotoxicity in fingers.
After receiving a total of 4 cycles of treatment, and pending a new CT reassessment, the patient came to the emergency department because he reported increased abdominal▁perimeter, as well as the appearance of edema in the lower limbs, 15 days of evolution.
Physical examination revealed increased abdominal▁perimeter, changing morningness compatible with ascites and the presence of ascitic smell.
In turn, he presents edema with a fovea in his ankles up to roots of his lower limbs.
There is no jugular engorgement, cardiopulmonary auscultation is normal, no collateral circulation is observed in the abdomen or there are cutaneous stigmata of chronic liver disease.
With the clinical orientation of ascites to study, the patient was admitted to Ontario Medical Center.
Laboratory tests revealed hemoglobin 13.3 g/dl, platelets 89,000 x 109/l (VN 150-200), total bilirubin transfer protein 2,3 mg/dl (VN positive hormone transfer protein 0,9-1,2), gamma transferase
Diagnostic paracentesis was performed, with clear liquid output, with proteins < 0.8 g/dl, albumin < 0.4 g/dl, with serum albumin-ascitic albumin (GASA) gradient calculated at 2, and 134/mm.
The fluid was compatible with a transudate, without infection data, and with GASA > 1.1, guiding the differential diagnosis to the processes that course with portal hypertension (PH).
On the following days, several tests were performed that approached the final diagnosis: » Hepatitis B and C virus serologies, which were negative, ruled out viral liver disease.
A complete▁ferric profile and ceruloplasmin measurement were also requested, which were normal, ruling out hemochromatosis and Wilson's disease respectively.
Hepatic Doppler ultrasound showed patency and thinning of the suprahepatic veins, with a tendency to flatten the flow wave, and permeability of the portal vein with an indirect flow HTP with a borderline flow velocity cm.
» CT scan of the abdomen, which showed no evidence of thrombosis of the suprahepatic veins, and also showed a significant decrease in the size of the hepatic lesions compared to the initial CT scan.
» Echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction within normal limits, with no data of heart failure, with non-dilated venous collectors.
» Blood TSH (thyrotropin) and T4 (thyroxyne) to rule out hypothyroidism, which were normal.
» Urine protein measurement, which was normal, was therefore not a nephrotic syndrome.
» Ascitic fluid cytology was negative for malignant cells.
» Ascitic fluid culture was also negative.
From the point of view of cancer, the patient had decreased liver lesions and decreased tumor markers being: Ca 19.9 979 U/ml (previously 4.740) and CEApreviously 3.019 ng/375).
Therefore, in a recent onset ascites, with data on PH, with negative results of the main causes of PH, without previous history of alcohol consumption, concrete chemotherapy or chemotherapy, was a toxic origin of PH.
A liver biopsy of the parenchyma not affected by the tumor was performed, highlighting the presence of sinus dilatation with diffuse distribution.
Medium contrast agent was located in the nucleus, pericellular reticular fibrosis was observed and the reticulin technique showed the presence of some trabeculae of chopped hepatocytes, with hyperproportion of hepatocytes.
Diagnosis After ruling out other causes of ascites, the patient had developed HT and asdemoascitic enlargement secondary to oxaliplatin toxicity in the form of SOS and HNR, with consequential
Treatment An 8 l evacuating paracentesis was performed, and parallel to the diagnostic study, a 1 l/day sodium and water restriction diet was prescribed. The evolution was favorable with diuretics 100 mg/24 mg and oral fluid restriction 40 mg.
The patient did not require any further evacuative paracentesis and was discharged after 9 days of admission.
Given the complication developed by oxaliplatin, and despite the tumor response of liver lesions, treatment with this drug was discontinued, maintaining capecitabine.
He has not required other admissions or required other evacuating paracentesis.
He has received a total of 8 cycles since the beginning of treatment, with acceptable tolerance, and is waiting for a new CT reassessment.
