Anamnesis A 38-year-old male patient recently operated on for testicular neoplasia by left orchiectomy with findings compatible with intratubular germ cell neoplasia with extratubular extension.
The extension study highlights the existence of a globe loose image and extensive retroperitoneal lymph node involvement; elevation of tumor markers -fetal-fetoprotein III human testicular hydro-lactate (ß-LDG) and tumor stage of tumor
After being evaluated by On Medical Doctor, it is proposed to start treatment with chemotherapy (QT) of according to the scheme BEP x 4 cycles (bleomycin, and first attack and cisplatin).
It was programmed its beginning after▁cryopreservation of semen.
The patient, 5 days after being evaluated, being the day prior to the start of programmed treatment, comes to the emergency department for sudden respiratory failure and fever.
Malaise with his professed state
Resting tachypnea with basal oxygen saturation of 88 %.
Temperature 38.5 oC.
Additional tests Emergency chest CT was requested to rule out pulmonary thromboembolism.
The CT scan shows multiple nodular images up to 3 cm, with wide distribution in the lung parenchyma of both lungs (metastasis already known).
Intercalling with nodular images, areas of ground glass are observed, with nonspecific characteristics, to assess origin (disease, infectious, etc.).
In the analysis, there was an increase in C-reactive protein (CRP) and leukocytosis with neutrophilia.
A new determination of tumor markers was performed; LDH 810 U/l (normal range 135-250), α-fetoprotein 42.73 ng/ml (normal range 0-10) and ß-HCG 140471
Before starting empirical antibiotic therapy, peripheral blood cultures were extracted.
Diagnosis Respiratory failure secondary to oncological disease and respiratory infection.
Treatment Empirical antibiotic therapy with piperacillin-ta was initiated with inhaled corticosteroid therapy and fluid therapy, as well as non-invasive mechanical ventilation.
Given the severity of the patient's condition, which is a potentially curable oncological disease, admission to the ICU was decided. Treatment with chemotherapy with andtopy was initiated with cisplatin; bleomycin was not administered for treatment
After administration of the first cycle of chemotherapy, the evolution from the respiratory point of view is torpid with bronchial secretions that are cultured two bacteria being sensitive to carbapenems, QT plus Proteus.
Antibiotic therapy was initiated with 2 g meropenem every 8 hours, supportive treatment with colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), two hemoconcentrates of tracheal intubation and tracheal intubation were performed.
The patient progressively, although slowly, begins to improve from the respiratory point of view, allowing extubation after 10 days.
Likewise, a decrease in tumor marker levels was observed.
She was discharged from the ICU and was admitted to the hospital on the ward where the second cycle of chemotherapy was administered.
Finally, due to a significant clinical improvement, without the need for respiratory support with medication, the patient was discharged home to continue treatment on an outpatient basis.
Subsequently, she received 4 more cycles of chemotherapy according to the BEP scheme with high partial response of the pulmonary nodules and retroperitoneal mass (TC reassessment), so surgical rescue of residual retroperitoneal mass was performed according to tumor response criteria complete response).
Currently, the patient, after three years of follow-up, has no evidence of disease.
