Anamnesis A 65-year-old woman diagnosed in 1993 with ductal carcinoma of the breast and left breast T2N2M0 was treated with radical surgery, locoregional radiotherapy, chemotherapy (adriamycin four cycles and cyclophosphamide, 1997).
In April 2014 there was evidence of pleuropulmonary, mediastinal and bone lymph node recurrence.
Treatment was initiated with paclitaxel-bearizumab plus zoledronic acid and letrozole.
In November that year, there was evidence of radiological progression of the disease, with an increase in pleural effusion, and treatment was initiated with sirolimus-exemestane.
Radiological and tumour markers improved during treatment.
At 3 months she began with a mild picture of subacute dyspnea and dry cough and a CT scan with partial response was performed, so the treatment was maintained.
In February 2015 the patient came to the emergency department hemodynamically stable for fever, dyspnea on moderate exertion and cough.
A simple chest X-ray showed a mild left pleural effusion, which was known as the only finding.
After cultures were taken, a respiratory infectious focus was suspected, and the patient was admitted to the On-going Levofloxacin treatment Service.
Three days after admission to the emergency department, persistent fever and a tendency to hypotension and tachypnea persisted, thus extending the coverage to oseltamivir, meropenem and vancomycin.
Despite antibiotic therapy, the patient presents a clear worsening with intense dyspnea, severe hypoxia, hypotension and tachycardia, so an urgent CT is performed describing findings suggestive of bilateral pneumonia as the first possibility.
In case of acute respiratory failure, she was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
Conscious physical condition, oriented.
Febrile, tachypnea; blood pressure 85/55 mm Hg; heart rate 130 bpm.
80% saturation without medication.
Cardiopulmonary arrest: rhythmic tones without murmurs.
Generalised hypoventilation.
Abdomen and limbs showed no relevant findings.
▁Complementary tests' CBC: leukocytosis with neutrophilia.
» Biochemistry: elevation of acute phase reactants.
̈ Arterial gass: acute respiratory failure.
» Chest X-ray: bilateral alveolointerstitial infiltrates of unknown aetiology.
» Blood culture, culture, pneumococcal antigen and Legionella in urine, bronchioloalveolar lavage fluid, urine urea breath test.
Diagnosis Given the clinical situation of the patient and the evolution in the ward despite treatment, take shape the possibility that the condition is due to pneumonitis in the context of treatment with bad pharmacological treatment begins.
Treatment For this reason, in addition to maintaining broad-spectrum antibiotics (oseltamivir, meropenem and cotrimoxazole), corticosteroid therapy was initiated at a dose of 2mg/kg/day.
The patient remains conscious and hemodynamically stable during the first hours of admission to the ICU, with a tendency to hypotension and need for non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NIMV), with good adaptation to it.
After 48 hours, the patient had a poor clinical outcome, worsening of hemodynamic parameters and initiation of vasoactive treatment with noradrenaline and need for tracheal intubation (OTI).
Attention is paid to the appearance of a cutaneous erythematous rash in the chest, abdomen and extremities.
On the following days of admission to the ICU, there was hemodynamic and clinical improvement, which allowed the withdrawal of noradrenaline and the advance in weaning to extubate the patient and to remain on non-pharmacological NIV progressing.
Analytically, a decrease in acute phase reactants was observed and the results of all cultures were negative.
Due to the stability, the patient was discharged from the ICU, with readmission to the outpatient unit where grade IV toxicity was declared and the patient was discharged from the intensive care unit of the Spanish Agency for Critical Care Drugs.
