We report the case of a 15-year-old female patient with fever, lymphadenopathy, pharyngeal pain and cough, who was treated in the emergency department and diagnosed with infectious mononucleosis by positive serological tests (FIEBVi).
Four days later, the patient returned to our hospital due to subjective worsening.
She complained of severe odynophagia and moderate exertional dyspnea.
On examination, the patient was febrile, with inspiratory stridor and had a very painful retropharyngeal and right laterocervical tumor.
Urgent blood tests showed normocytic-normochromic anemia (Hb 9.30 g/dL, V.C.M 85.20 fL), elevated liver enzymes (GGT 115.00 U/L, ASTG10
An emergency cervical CT scan showed a homogeneous hypodense collection located in the right retropharyngeal space, extending to the right parapharyngeal space and bilateral laterocervical adenopathies with radiologically significant size.
Upon oropharyngeal inspection, a bulging of the ipsilateral tonsil was observed, with protrusion of the retropharyngeal wall, which compromised the airway.
A sample was sent to the service of Microbiology, which showed positive culture for Clostridium sp and Prevotella.
During admission the patient developed fever, prolonged abdominal distension and▁malaise.
A chest X-ray revealed pleural effusion with right pulmonary condensation.
Chest x-ray.
▁Right pleural effusion was diagnosed with right pulmonary condensation.
A diffuse sclerotic effusion was requested (in which numerous lymph nodes were found in the prevascular space, paratracheal and subcarinal area, right hepatomegaly and evidence of enlargement, pleural occupation suggestive of pulmonary parenchyma associated).
Chest CT
Pulmonary parenchyma with patchy alveolar opacification of ground-glass attenuation with areas of alveolar consolidation in the posterior segment of LSD and both lower lobes, findings suggestive of pneumonic process.
Bilateral hiliar adenopathies with reactive inflammatory appearance.
Both episodes of colitis and pneumonia with parapneumonic effusion were resolved with antibiotic treatment (Vaccomycin-associated imipenem).
After 25 days of hospitalization the patient was discharged with medical treatment (Levofloxacin and Metronidazole).
