Anamnesis A 69-year-old hypertensive male with no other relevant history or toxic habits.
Cancer history of microinvasive penile carcinoma in 2015 was treated with multiple local resections with free margins in a patient without human papilloma virus (HPV).
In April 2017, a mass was diagnosed with abscess in the penis.
Physical condition The patient has an acceptable general condition with EC 1.
Aware and oriented in the three: time, space and time.
The patient was pale, pale, and pale.
Eupneic at rest.
During the exploration, a penectomy area scar was identified, with no signs of infection in the healing process, with finding fibrosis during consolidation.
Adjuvant bladder catheter does not show signs of infection with urine without sediments.
The rest of the abdominal examination, lower limbs and pulmonary and cardiac auscultation did not show other significant alterations.
▁Complementary tests suspect initial infection are operated by penectomy and perineostomy.
Pathological Anatomy describes penile carcinoma recurrence, with inconvenience of the body with remnants.
A CT scan of reevaluation in June 2017 showed an 11 mm right inguinal adenopathy suggestive of malignancy, with no other findings.
She underwent right lymphadenectomy in July 2017, with no evidence of malignancy being reviewed by a pathologist.
PET-CT was requested to complete a study that was performed in August, where local recurrence was described from the base of the penis to the surgical limit with locoregional implants in penile base, and inflammatory infiltrated left inguinal lymph nodes with normal uptake.
There are no signs of distant spread.
With confirmation of pelvic MRI lesions in September.
The patient presented postoperative discomfort with recurrent infections in the form of abscesses requiring multiple drainages and antibiotic therapy.
Diagnosis A 69-year-old male with recurrence of moderately differentiated epidermoid carcinoma that reaches the fat depth.
Scrotal and urethra affection, with PT4 Nx M0 staging.
Treatment After presenting the case in committee, it was decided to perform a surgical approach with radical intention.
She underwent surgery in September 2017 removing the inguinal mass insurance with external neck dissection with cerclage, suprapex bladderostomy with adjuvant treatment, and confirmed significant pelvic carcinoma recurrence.
We report a new case in a multidisciplinary committee. Two patients were evaluated with On2 radiation therapy, which overestimated treatment due to the disease. The patient was treated with cisplatin at a dose of 175 mg/kg/day, i.v.
Ev presented as toxicity during treatment neutropenia grade 2 established with nadir, and perineal abscess with spontaneous drainage.
In surgical wound culture, pseudotumors grow and are treated with quinolones according to the antibiogram. The patient shows clinical improvement.
It receives support with filgrastim 30 IU for 5 days, which is subsequently prescribed prophylactically in subsequent cycles.
The patient was readmitted after the second cycle due to a new perineal condition requiring spontaneous drainage and an increase in necrotic soft tissue.
Unfavorable evolution is requested imaging test where the objective is progression of residual mass in the region, with stability of lymphadenopathy and mild splenic growth with small inguinal adenocapsule lesions new inguinal hernias.
The patient has poor pain control, requiring intrathecal infusion of opioids and bupivacaine for symptomatic control.
The absence of clinical benefit, associated with the deterioration of the patient's functional status, rejects active oncological treatment and is referred to the Palliative Care Unit for the adequacy of therapeutic effort.
The patient died 2 months later.
