PACI MUCJER OF 45 YEARS attending the clinic referred by your general dentist to assess the periodontal status of your mouth.
The main reason for consultation of the patient is: not bad alienation, bleeding and inflammation for 4 years despite taking 3 years in periodontal treatment.
Besides, I have separated the "words."
Her medical history revealed chronic autoimmune thyroiditis and therefore did not require treatment.
She has been a former smoker for 5 years.
Her dental history shows interest on the part of the patient to solve her periodontal problem, since they have just undergone periodontal access surgery in the jaw for 4 weeks and have been doing prophylaxis often for a long time.
She also had orthodontic treatment 9 years ago.
No notable signs were found in the extraoral examination, while congenital diastema was detected in the intraoral examination in central traumas treated for 9 years; an occlusal overbite (bladder overbite) was found in 6.
In terms of gingival aspect increased size, change of color with reddish gums, very inflamed especially in sex II, as well as festone shape compatible with habitual gingival health and texture.
The suspicion of periodontitis was offered to the patient a complete radiographic examination.
The patient had an orthopantomography and given her situation with the thyroid, it was decided not to do a complete periapical series.
Two periapical radiographs of the anterior superior iliac crest were performed, the area most affected by loss of insertion and marginal bone loss.
A complete clinical examination was also performed with recording of all periodontal parameters reflected in the periodontal chart (Florida Probe System® FL, EE.
U.S.).
In their results periodontal pockets ≥ 6 mm were observed in 70 % of the locations, a bleeding index of 100 % and a plaque index of 48 %.
In addition, it presents grade I mobility in upper jaws.
As complementary diagnostic tests it was carried out measurement of volatile components precipitated, since it supposed one of its concerns in the consultation reason (Oral Chroma®).
Also, qualitative microbiological analysis was performed taking into account the pattern of inflammation, although the patient has been on periodontal treatment for 3 years with her dentist and without clinical improvement, using the DNA probe (Sunstar habitual, catheter).
Its result reveals the presence of Porviphy authentic▁gang as such, Tannerella Forshytia and Treponema Denticola, all of them belonging to the series "Roja" (World Workshop 1996),
According to the Armitage classification, in 2013 the patient was diagnosed with moderate generalized chronic periodontitis, advanced localized and bleeding on probing of 100 %.
As for the interarched relationship, there was a vertical 6 mm and horizontal 4 mm interlock, as well as occlusal trauma and fremitus in eccentric disillusionment in the anterior frontcisal and augmented diastema interin.
As treatment was proposed periodontal treatment of toothpaste and consistent in oral hygiene instructions scraping and root planning in 24 hours (Full Mouth Desinfection-Kinane 2004).
After 4 weeks, complete periodontal records were taken to evaluate the response as seen in photographs and periodontal data (S. Florida periodontogram).
Subsequently, advanced regenerative periodontal treatment was performed in sexu II with elimination of irritants and polishing of developmental sulcus on the root surface of #11 mesiopalatine, and Stram 500 mg enamel derived proteins application (Em).
With the New Classification of 2017 World Workshop on Periodontal and Periimplant Diseases and Conditions ("the World Workshop"), this patient would have been included in stage III periodontitis grade B. To classify periodontitis in stages and degrees.
▁Periodontal suspect of periodontitis in our patient was evaluated the loss of insertion (PIC) in more than 1 tooth and punctual x-rays were performed near anterior teeth and periodontal probe was performed only in the most affected area.
Periodontitis was present since probing depths > 4 mm were found in several locations.
Once the periodontitis patient is diagnosed, the stage and grade should be established.
We emphasize the importance of assessing the extent of the disease by analyzing whether clinical attachment loss (CAL) or bone loss (BOP) affect more than 30% of the locations, as in our case of generalized periodontitis.
To establish the stage of periodontitis in this patient we will assess the severity (by ICP, PO and PDP that are the dental losses of periodontal origin) and the complexity (evaluating the PS: probing depth.
In this patient we are facing a generalized periodontitis stage III (bolus in more than 30 % of locations, vertical defect in #11), grade B by the ratio PO/age and absence of risk factors.
Fortunately, in this case we have information about its evolution 5 years later.
In clinical images as well as in the periodontal and radiographic records, periodontal stability is observed, and in some areas even clinical attachment gain as well as partial diastema correction.
