Anamnesis A 64-year-old male patient with the following personal history to highlight: a 10-cigarette smoker, monoclonal IgG-lambda gammapathy and seronegative polyarthritis with methotrexate.
It was diagnosed in March 2018 during a study of anorexia and dyspepsia of years of evolution of extranodal marginal zone lymphoma type MALT stage IVB by endoscopic gastric biopsy.
He was treated with six cycles of R-CHOP scheme (including rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone) and was completely responded.
In November 2018, in the study of reassessment of response after completion of treatment, the patient was diagnosed with a new endoscopic gastric biopsy of transformation to BLP, with no further involvement in the extension study.
Treatment with etoposide, methylprednisolone, cytarabine, and cisplatin was then started in December, receiving a single cycle in October, followed by radiotherapy on gastric tumor volume with 30 Gy in 15 days.
In December, the patient consulted for a subacute condition of two weeks of evolution of disorientation, motor aphasia and weakness in the lower limbs, not associating fever, headache, vomiting or any other symptom onset in the plant.
Physical examination at the neurological level revealed temporary disorientation, dysnomia and loss of strength in the lower limb.
No lymphadenopathy or palpable abdominal masses, normal cardiorespiratory auscultation, and examination of limbs.
▁Complementary tests - Urgent analysis: no remarkable alterations.
- urgent skull CT: no space-occupying lesions or acute/subacute ischemic lesions are observed.
Left frontal hypodense focus.
- PET/CT body: decreased uptake of the cerebral cortex of the left hemisphere, especially in frontal, parietal and temporal areas, as well as thalamic regions and left cerebellar and hemispheric basal▁ganglia.
These changes suggest vascular origin.
In addition, a new appearance mass in contact with the right kidney not visualized in PET previous follow-up.
Retroperitoneal mass biopsy: non-plasmablastic lymphoma.
- brain MRI: irregular left frontal lesion not enhancement with contrast and increased vascularization, with a neoplasic origin, possibly diffuse astrocytoma.
Hyperintense lesions consistent with punctiform lesions in FLAIR and T2 in subcortical white matter.
▁Right cerebellar lesion with an encephalomalacia appearance.
Cerebrospinal fluid study: normal biochemistry, Gram stain without microorganisms, negative cultures, cytometry with absence of lymphoma, PCR herpes virus and varicella zoster negative.
- EEG: activity without abnormalities.
- Biopsy brain damage: changes consistent with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) with positive serology for the antibody S.V.
Perivascular inflammatory infiltrates, macrophages and oligodendroglial cells with large atypical nuclei with boron chromatin.
No evidence of primary glial neoplasm or lymphoma.
Moderate nuclear positivity for HSV-I with granular pattern.
- HIV serology: negative.
Diagnosis and outcome of brain imaging tests with finding a left frontal lesion that did not enhance with contrast and increased vascularization, the initial differential diagnosis of primary lymphoma was proposed.
She was evaluated by Neurosurgery, who ruled out the need for urgent surgery and added corticoids in descending order to treatment, with subsequent improvement of symptoms.
After presenting the case in the Neurology Committee and the progressive worsening of symptoms despite corticotherapy in the medium term, it was decided to biopsy the lesion.
The preliminary report of Pathological Anatomy described a primary brain tumor, which was assessed at that time by On Medical Report, with the option of astrocytoma vs. high-grade glioma being proposed.
After a thorough analysis of the sample, the infectious origin of the lesion, specifically PML, was confirmed; a weak positivity for HSV-1 was also detected.
Treatment Given the limited therapeutic options for non-HIV patients, it was decided to start treatment with mitotane for PML and add to it the positivity for ESR-1, with progressive worsening of the patient's clinical condition and sea status.
Petechiae, vomiting, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal pain, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, dysphagia, mouth dry
Finally, the patient died in February 2019 after two months of hospitalization.
