Anamnesis Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) have been considered a GFR revising treatment in patients with non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR mutation.
However, its use is not associated with risks, some of which are potentially fatal.
We present the case of a 64-year-old woman with depressive syndrome treated with venla ̄, myzapine and diazepam as the only personal history of interest.
She has no toxic habits and is independent for basic activities of daily living, lives with her husband and lives actively.
No family history of interest.
The patient consulted in the Gastroenterology Service in October 2007 for nonspecific epigastric pain.
She denied respiratory symptoms, constitutional syndrome or other added symptoms.
Physical examination revealed only mild pain to severe epigastric tenderness, with no other significant findings.
▁Complementary tests - complete blood analysis and gastroscopy (Octubre 2007): no alterations.
- Chest X-ray (Octubre 2007): solitary pulmonary nodule in the left lower lobe.
With this finding, she was referred to▁Pneumology, where the study was completed with: - without ipsilateral TAC (November 2007): nodule of pathological aspect in segment 6 of the left lower lobe, 2.8 x 3.2 cm.
- Respiratory function tests (November 2007): pattern of small airway obstruction.
-▁bronchoscopy (January 2008): compression of the left segment 6.
- Transbronchial cytology and biopsy (January 2008): no evidence of tumour necrosis.
- Culture of mycobacteria (January 2008): negative.
A close follow-up was performed, performing a new chest CT in early April 2008, where the nodule persists stable in the left lower lobe but mild left hiliar adenopathic progression and left paraesophageal adenopathy are observed.
On April 18, 2008, left lower lobectomy and videothoracoscopy-guided lymphadenectomy were performed, without postoperative complications.
Pathological anatomy is reported as poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of pulmonary origin 1.6 cm, with non visceral involvement and vascular invasion as poor prognostic factors.
Diagnosis Adenocarcinoma of pulmonary origin in left lower lobe UICC pT2aN0M0 (IB) stage.
Treatment After surgery, the patient was referred to the Medical Ongoing Service.
As it is a localized stage, the administration of adjuvant treatment is rejected in the absence of benefit for the patient.
Ev in the first CT scan of the abdomen with reassessment (September 2008), mediastinal and pleural lymph node involvement (left pleural implants and pleural effusion) was observed.
The relapse is confirmed by cytology of pleural fluid, which is positive for adenocarcinoma of pulmonary origin, currently being found in the UICC stage cTxcN2pM1 (stage IV).
Pleurodesis was performed and systemic treatment was started with intravenous cisplatin 75 mg/m2 on day 1 and intravenous gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 21 days, receiving 6 cycles between September 2009.
As side effects, nausea and vomiting grade 3, grade 2 diarrhoea and grade 1 (so the dose is 80% starting from the second cycle) and grade 2 (which requires febrile neutropenia at week 6).
An almost complete response was achieved except for residual pleural implants, so follow-up with revisions was initiated.
CT scan of June 2009 showed tumor progression in the▁mediastinum, pleural and in the infradiaphragmatic chain of the upper abdomen (retrocrural and gastroheptic ligament).
It was decided to start treatment within an SCAT clinical trial, receiving 3 cycles of trabectedin 1.5 mg/m2 day 1 every 21 days between July 2009 and August 2009.
The only adverse effect was grade 1 asthenia.
The patient was discharged from the trial due to an adenopathic progression at the mediastinal, axillary and superior retroperitoneal levels, as well as left pectoral implants, left adrenal gland, left physique for left iliac bone.
An EGFR study was requested, resulting in mutated EGFR, so in September 2009 treatment with erlotinib 150 mg daily was initiated.
Toxicity included diarrhea and skin rash grade 2, nasal mucositis and mild nail disorders.
In the first CT scan of reassessment at 3 months, a complete radiological response was observed and maintained in subsequent revisions.
On April 14, 2012, the patient came to the emergency department with dyspnea, pleuritic pain in the left hemithorax, dry cough and fever of up to 38oC for one week.
Angiography ruled out acute pulmonary thromboembolism.
In the imaging tests both lungs have extensive patchy areas in ground glass with areas of fibrosis predominantly in the lower lobes, not visible in previous CT scan.
Despite nebulizations with ipratropium bromide and salbutamol, April 2012 showed progressive corticosteroid therapy and high-dose corticotherapy (the suspicion of a secondary effect of the treatment was due to the unfavorable progression of the disease), piperacillin
In the autopsy study, intense morphological alterations were found in the lungs compatible with diffuse alveolar damage that evolved along with foci with a pattern of▁bronchiolitis obliterans/organised pneumonitis, in the absence of specific signs of carcinoma.
Reported pulmonary alterations have been described in the literature associated with treatment with erlotinib and are considered, in this case, the main cause of death.
