Anamnesis A 66-year-old woman with a history of hypertension and hypercholesterolemia underwent right breast tumorectomy in 1975 for benign pathology, urinary incontinence, varices, meniscopathy and myopia.
Locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the right breast (T2N1M0) HER2 positive phenotype was diagnosed in December 2015.
RE+++.
PR +.
Ki 67 15%.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (CT) was decided scheme liposomal doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 (day 1) + paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 (day 1.8,15) + trastuzuma dose (day 1)
After receiving 2 complete cycles of treatment, the patient came to the emergency department with fever of 3 days of evolution up to 39oC, with mild discomfort for swallowing and genealogical arthromyalgias of pharyngitis with no other normal devices.
4 days later, the patient came again due to worsening of the general condition and fever of 39oC, accompanied by cough, pleuritic chest pain, with dyspnea of recent onset at minimal exertion, with orthopnea and oliguria.
The severity of the situation, with signs of severe respiratory failure, was attributed to the ICU.
During his stay in the unit, broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy was initiated, and non-invasive ventilation was maintained for a few hours, subsequently requiring intubation and vasoactive drugs.
Antiviral treatment (oseltamivir), antifungal (voriconazole) and cotrimoxazole are associated with no clinical improvement with days, given the immunosuppression state, pending laboratory tests
Physical examination upon arrival to the emergency room,▁malaise, mucocutaneous stiffness, tachypnea at 36▁rpm, with intercostal retraction.
Intersecting.
TA 115/70.
FC 110.
SATO2 84% room air.
SATO2 90% with 100% reservoir.
ACP: rhythmic heart sounds, no murmurs.
Globally decreased vesicular murmur, with crackling rales, snoring and wheezing in both lung fields.
Abdomen: Hydroaerial noises present.
Pressible, painless palpation.
No peritoneal reaction.
No lower limb edema.
weak but symmetrical walls.
▁Complementary tests .
Blood analysis: Hb 8.9.
Leukocytes 12,100.
Liver and kidney function were normal.
.
Arterial hypertension: pO2 57 mmHg, venous hypertension 50 %.
SATO2 82%.
.
ECG: sinus tachycardia at 110 beats per minute.
.
Chest X-ray: Bilateral cotton-type infiltrates, in both upper lobes and LID.
.
Chest CT: Pattern of ground-glass patchy, with areas of peribronchial consolidation, bilateral subpleural.
.
ANTENDED FOR Legionella AND▁Pneumococcus Negative
.
C-reactive protein for influenza A, influenza B, RSV A and B, colonic infection, tuberculosiscystis jirovecii, CMV Epstein, Mycoplasma, Coxielladia, herpes virus Chlamydia negative,
.
Blood cultures were negative.
.
Echocardiogram: The ejection fraction was preserved.
No alterations.
.
Fibrobronchoscopy: permeable bronchial trees of normal caliber with erythematous mucosa and scarce serous secretion.
Cit de la flow de BAL: highlights the presence of 84% lymphocytes (T 98% lymphocytes, B 0.5%, and NK 1.5%).
PA: absence of malignant cells.
Diagnosis Interstitial pneumonitis induced by chemotherapy drugs complicated with acute respiratory distress syndrome.
Treatment of the diagnostic results, it was decided to suspend all anti-infectious treatment, and intravenous methylprednisolone was started at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day.
a discharge due to decreased oxygen at the beginning of the corticosteroid treatment, the patient showed clinical, laboratory and radiological improvement, which subsequently led to extubation, maintaining non-invasive mechanical ventilation with a paulatin drop in discharge with oral corticosteroids
Given the CT-induced grade 4 pulmonary toxicity, she was presented to a breast tumor committee, where it was decided to suspend neoadjuvant treatment and reassessment study, aiming at PR, and adjuvant radiotherapy.
Presently, CD is treated with letrozole without evidence of tumor disease.
