A 73-year-old anamnesis with the only relevant history of cirrhosis hepatitis C virus in follow-up for congestive heart failure, with good liver function (Child-Thrase A virus-Pugh Class A).
In one of the reviews, HCC was diagnosed in May 2008.
It was initially managed by radiofrequency Digestive (RF) twice, achieving complete remission of the lesion.
In June 2011, a new nodule was observed in a hepatic segment other than that affected in 2008.
It was treated with percutaneous ethanol injection.
During follow-up, a CT scan showed the appearance of new nodules in several liver segments (multicenter CCH, stage B of the Barcelona Clinical Liver Cancer scale [BCLC]).
It was decided to treat with TACE or transarterial chemoembolization.
One year later, in June 2013, a control CT scan and later a hepatic MRI (magnetic resonance) confirmed the recurrence with the appearance of 4 nodules (affected several segments) in the liver and peritoneal thickening.
Physical activity The patient was transferred to the physician's office.
At the initial evaluation, the patient presented an anodyne physical examination, except for pain in the right hypochondrium (RHC).
Liver function was also normal less for mild thrombopenia (106,000/mm3).
Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was 67.3 ng/ml.
Treatment with sorafenib 400 mg/2 times a day was initiated.
Fifteen days after starting sorafenib, the patient developed▁palmar-plantar▁erythrodysesthesia grade 3 (G3 CTCAE V.4.0), diarrhea G2 and asthenia G2.
The dose was reduced to 400 mg/day and then due to persistent toxicity G2, to 400 mg/48 h. Finally, it was decided to definitively discontinue sorafenib due to poor tolerance after one dose of treatment with several adjustments.
In August 2013, gemcitabine was started twice a week.
On the second cycle, she presented with febrile neutropenia G3 that required hospitalization.
During hospital discharge, the patient presented a great deterioration in his functional status (performance status: CD-2-3), residual asthenia and occasional fever without a recognisable infectious cause.
At this time, the patient had sustained thrombopenia (52,000/mm3).
A reevaluation MRI was performed, which showed stabilization of the disease.
Along with poor tolerance and deterioration of the patient due to the toxicity of previous therapies, it was decided not to resume chemotherapy treatment and to observe through clinical reviews and imaging tests.
Follow-up from September 2013 to April 2017 In the CT and MRI reevaluations, minimal disease progression periods were maintained, alternating with stabilization periods.
The patient was excluded in several PS interpretations and, as the most relevant clinical alterations, presented: mild basal pain CDH controlled with 1st step analgesia, mild thrombopenia and occasional fever (study)
Due to the patient's fragility regarding poor tolerance to previous treatments and evidence of a slow and paucisymptomatic evolution of the disease, it was decided to avoid active treatment and maintain follow-up every 3 months.
Diagnosis Progression and the appearance of immunotherapy in the treatment of HCC. In the April/2017 review, progression of the tumour lesions was determined AFP in the presence of several lobes of the liver, involvement of the abdominal wall (123 ng).
Treatment It was decided to start treatment with nivolumab at a dose of 3 mg/kg/day every 2 weeks.
Treatment with IT for approximately 13 months was successful and toxicity observed in the patient was mainly asthenia G1 and exanthema G1.
The best response observed during this period was stabilization of the disease.
In May 2018, new progression was confirmed, so nivolumab was suspended.
At this time, due to the exhaustion of therapeutic tools for this scenario, we attempted to re-treatment with sorafenib (at very low doses: 200 mg/day every 48 h) but, even so, it was not established.
Entitlement in July of the same year regorafenib was initiated at a dose of 80 mg/day for 21 days cycles every 28 days.
However, tolerance to this drug was also poor, with skin reaction G3, asthenia G3 and elevation of transaminase > 4 times the upper limit of normal (4 x ULN).
Hospital admission and immediate withdrawal of regorafenib were decided.
Finally, the patient died at the end of August 2018 due to new tumor progression and irrecoverable liver failure.
