Anamnesis A 53-year-old woman from Ecuador, ex-smoker of 15 cigarettes/day for 15 years, with a BMI of 25 and dyslipidemia.
Cholecystectomized for biliary colic.
He did not undergo routine treatment (heart beating atorvastatin for a few months, leaving treatment by his own decision).
4 healthy children with no relevant oncological family history.
Located in February 2015 by steatorrhea and loss of 10 kg of weight in one year.
Malaise was diagnosed when the patient was asymptomatic.
CT scan showed mild hepatic steatosis and cystic image of 1 cm in the head of the pancreas.
A study was completed with cholangioresonance and MRI of the pancreas, with pancreatic mass of 3 cm suspected of having a tumor.
To confirm the diagnosis, a high endoscopic ultrasound was performed, finding a poorly defined 3 cm mass, whose biopsies were not representative.
Due to the suspicion of pancreatic tumor, in December 2015 a pancreaticoduodenum resection was performed. The patient was scheduled for surgical removal of a lymph node with complete pathological resection and high-grade adenocarcinoma, pancreatic free-tissue of 1.3 cm.
The extension study was negative, and in January 2016 began adjuvant therapy with gemcitabine, receiving 6 cycles until June 2016, with good tolerance.
In July 2016 she consulted for pain in the right hypochondrium and ascites.
Physical examination on arrival at the emergency room: «Stable constants with tendency to tachycardia.
TA 109/82 mm Hg, HR 105 bpm, SpO2 97 % basal.
Afebril.
Mucocutaneous seizure.
» ACP: fine biannual crepitants.
MVC.
» ABD: very distended, without tension ascites.
Pain in HCD and epigastrium to deep fixation, Murphy negative.
No Blumberg.
Mild renal impairment
» LL: edema with fovea up to the root of limbs, without signs of DVT, pulses present.
▁Complementary tests Analytically highlights hyperbilirubinemia, with total bilirubin 3.3 mg/dl (mostly direct), atherosclerosis with macroglobulin (GGT 220 U/TT) and normal cytolysis enzymes (GPT 225.7 mg/dl).
She was admitted for study and differential diagnosis was established: » Infectious etiology was ruled out: ascitic fluid with no peritonitis data.
Hepatitis A virus (negative IgM, positive IgG), hepatitis B (HBs Ag negative, HBcIgG negative), hepatitis C (HCVA negative), hepatitis E (IgG negative, IgM and PCR negative) were ruled out.
» Emolic etiology is ruled out by the clinical history and the absence of clinical and analytical data to suspect this etiology.
» Tumor etiology is ruled out: cytology of ascitic fluid negative for malignant cells.
CT and MRI were performed without evidence of tumor recurrence, showing "possible liver toxicity on severe steatosis with a fat fraction of 43.5%".
PET was performed with only finding of "pathological liver uptake".
» Vascular etiology (Budd-Chiari, thrombosis) is ruled out due to the absence of findings on imaging tests and solely finding of polyclonal IgG increase in relation to cirrhosis.
» Autoimmune etiology is ruled out: 2 negative samples for antimitochondrial antibodies, smooth muscle anti-LKM.
Positive antinuclear antibodies (ENA, DNA) are granular in one way and not very significant.
» Genetic causes are ruled out: alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency due to normal levels.
» Wilson's disease was initially suspected due to ceruloplasmin < 10U/l, normalizing in a second sample with normal 24-h urine copper (and absence of copper deposits in liver biopsy).
» Other rare and less probable causes are ruled out: haemochromatosis (hepatic function, normal ferritin and transferrin saturation prior to the start of chemotherapy), celiac disease, granulomatous heart disease, heart failure.
» Drugs: after ruling out other probable causes, we analyzed the drugs received in the last 6 months (ciprofloxacin due to urinary infection for 10 days during treatment with little gemcitabine, atorvastatin for its own decision).
Diagnosis With suspicion of acute non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) liver biopsy was performed: submassive liver necrosis with ballooning of hepatocytes, highly suggestive of NASH of probable pharmacological cause.
Since, with the exception of gemcitabine, the other drugs were administered in a short period of time, this complication was attributed to gemcitabine, and the drug agency was informed.
Treatment During admission, the patient received supportive treatment, presenting several hepatic encephalopathy episodes that were managed conservatively, as well as nosocomial pneumonia requiring intravenous antibiotic therapy and steroid therapy, with progressive improvement.
After 3 months of admission, the patient was discharged in October 2016 with clinical improvement and continued follow-up in Ontario and Discriminative, without new episodes of consolidation until the date without data of tumor recurrence
