Anamnesis A 61-year-old male smoker comes to the emergency department for presenting a generalized tonic-clonic movement crisis of several minutes duration with subsequent post-critical condition.
It was a single man who lived alone in a rural setting.
She had no other relevant medical history or contacts.
The patient and family reported that they had previously presented general symptoms with fever, weight loss and asthenia with anorexia.
Physical training » TA 120/70 mm Hg.
Ta 37.7 oC.
HR 80 bpm.
Basal oxygen saturation was 95 %.
"Eupneic.
No lymphadenopathies were detected.
» Pulmonary consolidation with disseminated roncus in all fields.
« Austria constrictament de cardiac silhouette était un soplos ni extractonos.
» Blurred and depressible abdomen with normal air-fluid noises.
» There were no edemas or signs of venous thrombosis.
» Skin examination revealed no relevant changes.
Blood count, coagulation and blood biochemistry tests were performed in the emergency room and were normal.
A chest X-ray showed a pulmonary mass of approximately 3 cm in the middle lobe in contact with the parietal lobe compatible with primary lung cancer, and a CT scan of the brain showed a frontal right LOES with associated vasogenic oedema.
The patient was admitted to Internal Medicine Unit where a diagnosis of pulmonary mass was established in the left ventricle and a nodule in the LSD segment was identified, with data of paraseptal emphysema and probable pulmonary fibrosis.
There were no data on other levels.
A CT-guided core needle biopsy of this mass was performed, which was compatible with atypical glandular 3D groups, compatible with adenocarcinoma.
No EGFR mutation or ALK translocation was detected.
Serology for HIV and hepatitis were negative.
Diagnosis With the diagnosis of stage IV lung adenocarcinoma due to brain involvement in a patient with EC-0, she was referred to On
Treatment Dexamethasone was administered orally at a dose of 4 mg cd 8 hours, levetiracetam 500 mg every 12 hours orally and 20 mg orally daily.
He received holocraneal radiotherapy and, subsequently, a first cycle of chemotherapy with Carboplatin AUC-5-paclitaxel 175 mg/m2-be toxicity 15 mg IV.
The patient was admitted 15 days after the end of holocraneal radiotherapy. She came to the emergency department complaining of dyspnea and cough, high fever and disorientation.
The patient had significant affectation of the general state with tachypnea and draught.
She was febrile (39oC) and tachycardic HR 120 bpm) with BP 130/70 mm Hg.
Pulmonary auscultation revealed bilateral snoring.
The rest of the physical examination was anodyne.
The laboratory tests showed leukocytosis with elevated acute phase reactants and arterial gas, which showed hypoxemic respiratory failure with a PaO2 of 45 mm Hg.
Blood cultures and sputum samples were obtained.
A new chest X-ray showed bilateral interstitial infiltrate as well as the pulmonary lesion already known.
She was admitted to the emergency room with hypersensitivity bronchotherapy at 15 bpm, intravenous corticoid treatment, bronchodilators, and broad-spectrum antibiotics based on meropenem 1 g every 8 hours when considering the immunosuppressed patient.
The clinical course was not satisfactory in the first two days, and the patient was kept hypoxemic. It was decided to add an opportunistic treatment of locystiazol-trimethoprim (160 mg/32 mg every 6 hours) to treat opportunistic infections in patients with
After 24 hours, the patient became afflicted with constipation and subsequently improved her hypersensitivity, reducing oxygen supply and corticosteroid doses.
Five days after admission, the sputum culture was positive for Nocturnal Infections. These data were collected and a review of the natural history of cerebral infection and infection after consultation with the Primary Care Centre was performed.
Brain CT showed complete regression of brain lesions.
Intravenous antibiotic treatment was completed for 4 weeks, and finally the patient was discharged with oral antibiotic treatment and followed-up in outpatient clinics of Ontario, Colombia, receiving a total of 7 cycles of the aforementioned treatment scheme.
Later, the patient presented disease progression and finally died due to her tumor 9 months after diagnosis.
