Anamnesis The patient presented is a 42-year-old woman, without known drug allergies with smoking habit since 18 years old, with daily consumption of 20 cigarettes, without alcohol consumption.
This is a patient who is a housewife and has a paid occupation with her partner and is the mother of a child since the age of 35.
His family history included a history of his father diagnosed with liver cancer at 77 years of age.
She had a history of recurrent cystectomy in childhood, with no other relevant findings.
Her oncological history began in July 2016 when she consulted her family doctor for telorrea on the left breast nipple, requesting a bilateral mammography for study.
Mammography alteration was referred to the Breast Pathology Unit of the Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol (ICO-Badalona).
At first, in the physical examination, eczema in the left nipple stood out. On mammography of the left breast (in the lower left quadrant [IQR]), a spiculated nodule with a malignancy of approximately 5 cm was found.
In addition, ultrasound of the left axillary lymph nodes was performed in which one of them had thickened cortical (3.9 mm) so FNA was performed.
Biopsy of the IIC nodule was positive for ductal stenosis carcinoma, with estrogen receptors (ER) 0 %, progesterone receptors (PR 0 %), HER-2 amplified, and cytology of the left axillary FNAC was positive.
After completing an extension study with bone scintigraphy and abdominal CT scan that ruled out the presence of distant disease, she was diagnosed with a cT4N1M0 left breast cancer (stage IIIB), HER-2 positive receptors.
Considering the stage and biological characteristics of the disease, the patient started neoadjuvant treatment with the adriamycin and cyclophosphamide (AC) regimen for four cycles, followed by paclitaxel-trastuzumab-per.
The patient completed neoadjuvant treatment in January 2017, with good tolerance to treatment, presenting as complications only a grade 1-2 neurotoxicity.
In April 2017, surgery was performed, performing a mastectomy with micro ganglion fixation 11 mm to axillary lymph node, presenting in the pathological nests of carcinoma (1 mm) isolated ductal carcinoma without resection in a 19 mm extension (each 1 margins)
It was evaluated as a partial pathological response (Symmans RCB-I).
The patient was evaluated after surgery, starting treatment with subcutaneous trastuzumab to complete a year of treatment, starting on May 10, 2017.
38 C. Physics▁dated June 5, 2017, the patient consulted in our center for a two-week history of dyspnea that had progressed to minimal exertion with cough without expectoration and feverish peaks.
Initially, basal O2 saturation of 87% was detected, so that physiotherapy was initiated, with normotherapy and no fever.
▁Complementary tests An analytical test was performed, highlighting leukocytosis of 20,200 with 94 % of segmented neutrophils. There was an increase in the thoracic APR after non-adjuvant treatment with radiograph of 695 mg/dl, and initial PCR gas insufficiency x-baseline.
It was decided to admit the patient for study and therapeutic management.
Diagnosis With the pattern of the chest X-ray, a differential diagnosis between the different etiologies had to be made: infectious etiology: it is the main cause to rule out this radiological finding and the analytical with leukocytosis, in addition to the history of
Initially hemocultive and urocultive were obtained.
Cardiac etiology: since the patient had received cardiotoxic oncological treatment (such as adriamycin and trastuzumab), it should be ruled out that the image corresponds to pulmonary edema.
To this end, the recent ventriculography that the patient had a LVEF of 67 % was confirmed.
Hemorrhagic etiology: another cause to be ruled out with the radiological pattern, in this case the patient remained hemodynamically stable at all times and with a preserved hematocrit.
The etiology: this origin is stated by the treatment received by the patient.
The pulmonary toxicity caused by trastuzumab and paclitaxel is well known.
Due to the different possible etiologies, empirical antibiotic treatment was initiated, in this case ceftriaxone and levofloxacin, thinking of a respiratory infection due to atypical pathogens and corticotherapy the most frequent etiologies are due to their possible origin.
During admission, a chest CT was performed which confirmed the presence of diffuse bilateral ground glass infiltrates of basal predominance, which could be attributed to pulmonary toxicity by drugs without ruling out other causes (pneumocystis pneumonia, viral alveolar hemorrhage).
Bronchoscopy showed no anatomical alterations and samples were obtained with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) to obtain cytology and microbiology, as well as bronchoalveolar aspirate (BAS).
In order to study the infectious etiology, detection of Aspergillus, herpes and CMV in plasma was also performed, which were negative, pneumococcal antigenurias and Legionella were also negative. Finally, the samples obtained by▁bronchoscopy showed a negative predominance of BAL cells.
Treatment (including progress section).
control and oncological findings, after ruling out the infectious origin for all the negative findings, cardiological edema by recent electrocardiography (March 17) with LVEF% and absence of previous bronchoscopic treatment showed improvement of the respiratory symptoms.
