Anamnesis 61-year-old woman, ex-smoker with a pack-year index of 10, with no other relevant personal or family history.
The study began in October 2015 after the liver profile was altered by routine laboratory tests.
The patient was initially asymptomatic, developed during the study ignition as the only sign derived from the disease.
Physical examination revealed a haemodynamically stable condition with good general condition.
She presented conjunctival jaundice.
Cardiopulmonary arrest was normal.
Painless abdomen during deep palpation, without masses or visceromegaly.
Lower limbs were unchanged.
No palpable lymph nodes or other remarkable findings.
▁Complementary tests were requested admission to the Digestive for the study.
Analytically, bilirubin 2.4 mg/dl, AST 729 U/l, ALT 1286 U/l, GGT 1,848 U/l, serology for hepatotropic virus negative and Ca 19.9 77 U/ml stood out.
Abdominal ultrasound (02/10/2015) showed thickening of the pancreatic head with a hypoechogenic area of 3.5 cm and dilatation of the biliary tract intra- and extrahepatic CT-scan showed a poorly defined pancreatic vein/2015.
High endoscopic ultrasound was performed to suggest the presence of an artery and superior mesenteric vein, taking a sample of the pancreatic lesion.
The biopsy was non-diagnostic, as well as a second biopsy also by endoscopic ultrasound, so finally a surgical biopsy was performed by laparoscopy on 11/2015.
The pathological diagnosis was well differentiated adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.
Regarding pulmonary nodules, an etiologic study was performed to rule out autoimmune, infectious diseases and/or distant spread of the disease, including▁bronchoscopy with lavage and transbronchial biopsy, without reaching diagnosis.
In the absence of another cause, despite the negativity of the biopsy, they were assumed to be metastatic.
Due to obstruction of the bile duct, a biliary stent was placed by interventional radiology.
Diagnosis of metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, cT4 Nx M1, stage IV, was referred to the Medical Ongoing Clinic to assess systemic treatment.
Treatment began first line treatment with FOLFIRINOX, completing 15 cycles with good tolerance except for grade 1 neurotoxicity, and maintained aphasia or aphasia that finally required re-cycle treatment in 10 occasions.
In the reassessment tests, a partial response of the pancreatic lesion was evident with no changes in the pulmonary micronodules and negativization of the tumour marker was observed. The patient was treated with radiotherapy alone with radiotherapy alone (GyRgy, 2016).
Pulmonary progression was observed in November 2016, with an increase in Ca 19.9.
The study of pulmonary involvement was repeated with▁bronchoscopy without being able to histologically demonstrate the metastatic involvement and again with negative tests for autoimmune and infectious diseases.
Having good response and tolerance to previous treatment, it was decided to restart treatment with FOLFIRI, since it was interposed in a disease control situation.
After 9 cycles, a new pulmonary progression was observed in April 2017, and treatment with gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel was started, with stable disease and a decrease in the marker after 3 cycles.
After the fourth cycle, nab-paclitaxel was suspended due to distal neuropathy grade 3, continuing with gemcitabine monotherapy until completing 9 cycles.
In February 2018, a new worsening of the bilateral metastatic pulmonary involvement was observed, with greater dilation of the Wirsung duct, suggesting radiological worsening.
When the patient was clinically asymptomatic, FOLFOX was started again after improvement of neuropathy to grade 1 in the previous months, starting with lower doses of oxaliplatin to assess tolerance.
In March 2018, after completing two cycles of treatment with good tolerance, without neurotoxicity, he came to the emergency department due to dyspnea on moderate exertion and fever.
Physical examination revealed crackles in both lung bases and saturation of 85 % without radiation therapy.
Analytically, the patient showed no alterations, with no elevation of acute phase reactants.
An urgent CT scan was performed, describing a similar quantity and distribution of the multiple bilateral nodular lesions in the lung parenchyma, associating a ground-glass pattern, especially in bases where infectious consolidation had initially appeared.
Empirical treatment with meropenem and trimethoprima/sametoxazol was initiated, as well as antifungal treatment and corticosteroids for possible toxicity of chemotherapy.
Bronchoscopy was performed with a sample for microbiological cultures, which were negative.
In the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, an inverted CD4/CD8 and a high percentage of neutrophils were observed.
In addition, a biopsy was performed, with a positive result for adenocarcinoma of pancreatic origin.
During hospitalization, the patient showed progressive improvement.
She was evaluated by the Infectious Medicine Department who recommended antibiotic withdrawal, considering low suspicion of an infectious etiology.
From the oncological point of view, although it was the first time that a positive result for adenocarcinoma was obtained in the bronchial biopsy, it was considered unlikely that the acute changes with consolidation and interstitial drug progression were secondary to a continued pharmacological treatment.
The patient was being treated with corticosteroids in descending order until she was able to completely remove them, with marked clinical improvement, currently being found without dyspnea, cough or respiratory failure.
