Anamnesis A 55-year-old female patient with no relevant medical or surgical history.
She was not taking chronic treatment.
A menopausal woman, housewife and mother of two healthy children.
The patient did not have a family history of▁neoplasms nor did she refer exposure to toxic or chemicals that were related to an increased incidence of▁neoplasms.
Four months ago, the patient was being studied for progressive left hip pain refractory to first and second step analgesics.
The woman had recently undergone magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which had not yet been evaluated in medical consultation, where she had a tumor-like lesion affecting the proximal femoral diaphysis of the left and soft tissues.
The patient consulted in her referral hospital for a 4-hour history of sudden headache of high intensity accompanied by▁malaise and vomiting.
Initially, the neurological examination was anodyne.
Due to this clinical presentation, a computed tomography (CT) of the head was performed, showing intraparenchymal bleeding compatible with brain metastasis.
For this reason, a transfer was made to the Neurosurgery Department of our hospital and once admitted an interconsultation was made.
Establishment plan for the European Commission
Karnofsky Scale: 50.
Regular general condition
Oriented only in person.
Pathway to the movie.
Cranial preserved pairs.
Neurological examination was unremarkable.
At the otorhinolaryngological level, she did not present palpable adenopathies.
Cardiac, respiratory and abdominal pain were uneventful.
On examination of the lower limbs, a mass of 9-10 centimeters (cm) of hard maximum length was fixed to deep planes and painless.
Additional tests » Serial analytical tests 9 and 19 of May: alkaline phosphatase: normal.
LDH: 312 and 404 U/l.
» Path mapping: hyperintestinal manifestation of cortical bone cap and cebolla image in left middle third.
» Chest X-ray: bilateral hyperintense nodular pulmonary images in "balloon solution".
» CT of the extremities: intramedullary lytic lesion in the proximal third of the left femoral diaphysis (7.3 cm) with hyperdense material.
Posterior (0.9 cm) and medial (0.8 cm) cortical disruption.
» Endosteal remodeling.
Pericardial thickening in onion layers.
Soft tissue mass (11 x 7.5 cm) in adductor and crural muscles.
» Percutaneous core needle biopsy (FNAB): 9 x 9 x 12 cm left parietal soft tissue biopsy.
» Contrast-enhanced brain MRI: right temporal haemorrhagic lesion (2.8 cm) and left occipital lesion (3.5 cm).
Leptomeningeal nodule 1 cm left parietooccipital.
Left subdural and tentorial hematoma.
» Soft tissue biopsy: large▁conglomerate of round or fusocellular cells with abundant mitosis.
Large areas of necrosis are observed.
Osteoid failure in interstitial space
Immunohistochemia: SATB2 positive.
Conclusion: high-grade small cell osteosarcoma.
Diagnosis Osteosarcoma of small cells (Hutter) stage IV (cerebral and pulmonary affection).
Treatment First line of multidrug therapy with cisplatin and adriamycin.
At admission, supportive treatment with corticosteroids, serum therapy, first and third step analgesia was initiated.
Complete tumor staging and biopsy of the thigh lesion were performed.
During the first days of admission, a deterioration with marked fluctuation level of consciousness, mixed aphasia and vertigo, with progressive vertiginous syndrome stabilized,▁optimizing treatment by medical treatment.
Once the diagnosis was obtained, the patient was commented on in the Tumor Committee, adopting the first-line treatment with a scheme of multidrug therapy based on cisplatin and adriamycin.
Brain stigma is defined as a first step in surgery and holocraneal radiotherapy.
The patient presented an initial neurological improvement.
Shortly after, the patient again presented progressive deterioration with akathisia as the main symptom.
Despite conservative measures, the patient did not improve, so with a joint decision of the family, treatment was chosen to control symptoms.
The patient died on day 14 of admission without presenting signs of suffering.
