Anamnesis A male patient with no relevant medical-surgical history, who debuted at 20 years of age with a 3-week history of headache of occipital predominance and later with binocular diplopia.
Physical examination revealed only mild pupillary pupil and referred binocular diplopy.
▁Complementary tests A computed tomography (CT) showed moderate hydrocephalia conditioned by the presence of a mass in the posterior wall of the third ventricle/pelvic▁ganglia and a cranial and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.
On May 11, 2016 a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biopsy was performed and a papillary pattern associated with a more diffuse pattern with rosette-like immunostaining positive lesions was observed.
Diagnosis Papillary tumor of the localized pineal region.
Treatment The patient was reoperated on on May 31, 2016 by suprainfratentorial craniotomy for excision of the mass with a complete resection.
Subsequently, radiotherapeutic treatment was decided upon for surgical wound bed with a dose of 52.2 Gy in 29 sessions, which were administered between July and September 2016.
Ev in November 2016 recurrence was detected by locoregional leptomeningeal dissemination at the level of cerebellar hemispheres in a control MRI.
Craniospinal radiotherapy was administered at a total dose of 52.2 Gy, which ended in December 2016.
On January 30, 2016, chemotherapy was initiated with lomustine + cisplatin + vincristine.
In August 2017, the patient completed five cycles of chemotherapy with complete radiological response and acceptable tolerance, highlighting neuropathic toxicity and decreases in the three series of complete blood count.
Subsequently, two additional cycles were administered with dose reduction for toxicity after which the patient was followed.
In May 2018, the patient presented a new radiological tumor progression.
The 28/5/2018 restarted treatment with lomustine + cisplatin + vincristine given the previous response, progressing radiologically after three cycles.
A second line treatment with temozolamide was initiated on September 18, 2018. After two cycles, the patient presented significant radiological tumor progression (with massive meningeal dissemination of the craneal nerve and locally refractory analgesia with oral steroid syndrome).
After radiotherapy, on November 30, 2016, the patient received a third line of treatment with and without tapering of the dose due to previous toxicity, presenting a poor but constant radiological tumor stabilization and delay in oral chemotherapy.
In March 2019, the patient developed febrile neutropenia with pulmonary superinfection by cystic jirovecii that required prolonged hospitalization.
Despite the adiological progression of the disease, due to the clinical progression (re-appearance of pplopia) and the great stabilization of the condition with beta/20ido defect, it was decided to switch to a new treatment line 8
Since hospital discharge, the patient remains with established paraplegia secondary to tumor dissemination in the horsetail and steroid myopathy.
Currently, she has four cycles of treatment with beizumab and is waiting for MRI reassessment of the disease.
