Anamnesis In November 2010, a 46-year-old man was diagnosed with a hypopharynx neoplasm located as a result of dysphonia, dysphagia, odynophagia and left reflex otalgia (left ear).
The patient had a history of smoking and alcohol consumption, a head trauma with intraparenchymal bleeding fronto-temporal enolism and an enzyme disorder related to the hepatic enzyme linked to alcoholism.
Physical examination at diagnosis revealed a 5-6 cm left laterocervical tumor in the mid-jugular, fixed, difficult to delimit and painful chain and 1 cm tonsillar adenopathy.
On examination performed in Otorhinolaryngology (ORL), an excretory lesion in the left pharyngeal wall with involvement of aryepiglottic fold and left piriform sinus with vocal cord fixation.
▁Complementary tests At diagnosis, the following complementary tests are performed: » Cervical CT: left piriform sinus tumor with cranial extension by lateral pharyngeal wall to the region of tonsillar fold.
Extract a laryngeal constriction with a retroepiglottic fold, band and CVI.
Ext medial to pharyngeal wall posterior to retrocricoid level, lying midline.
Excessive exolaringeal folding with perithyroid musculature on both sides of the left ala of cartilage suggestive of indigo carmine.
Caudally, contact with the apical portion of the thyroid lobe left without a fat plane of separation.
Pathological adenopathies in group IIA and III duodenum.
TC - abdominal: normal.
» What is referred in the ENT examination and biopsy.
Diagnosis The patient is diagnosed with a hypopharynx neoplasia in the left piriform sinus (moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma), cT4N2M, stage IVA.
Treatment In December 2010 she started radical treatment (tto) with radiotherapy (RT) and chemotherapy (CT) with cisplatin (CDDP); ended in February 2011.
After the end of the tto, it was evaluated in March 2011 as a partial response of the primary tumor and lymphadenopathies by imaging tests, and on physical examination, there was a large decrease in size of the adenopatic chain mazacote and jugular vein.
The patient was admitted several times before, during and after the initial diagnosis of dysphagia, colitis and aspiration pneumonia. A feeding gastrostomy was performed.
On May 17, 2011, a total laryngectomy was performed with partial pharyngectomy and bilateral functional pharyngectomy.
The patient was admitted for colonization of the pharyngostoma by Pseudomonas and secondary bacteremia, treated with antibiotic therapy, with good evolution.
E. vestibule in October 2013, radiological, non-surgical left laterocervical lymph node recurrence was observed due to carotid artery involvement, so a first line of tto QT was initiated according to the CDDP-5-fluorouracil (5FU) scheme
Fifteen days after starting this procedure, the patient was admitted for loss of vision in the left eye secondary to occlusion of the central retinal artery (CRA).
The examination revealed adenopepillary ptosis and alteration of the left cranial nerve in relation to compression by▁conglomerate internal carotid artery edited (ACII) flow absence and hypercoagulability syndrome following external constriction resonant brain tests.
It is valued that it has occurred in a progressive way, and that it has a right carotid artery with somewhat faster flows and opening of the anterior▁communicant.
» The supra-aortic trunk duplex (SAT) and transcraneal (12/11/2013): sample left occipital artery (LAA) assisted.
Neck difficult to assess, identifying the left carotid axis.
Plaque calcified in right bulb without any impact.
Return of normal arteries
» In staging CT (15/11/2013): good radiological evolution of the adenopatic▁conglomerate with necrotic laterocervical ibdo component.
Thrombosis of the left carotid artery.
» In addition, polyglobulia (hemoglobin 2 g/sdl, hematocrit 59.1%) is observed analytically, which is considered paraneoplastic after ruling out Vera polycythemia (normal EOP, JAK-2)
Antiplatelet therapy with▁acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg was initiated and phlebotomy was performed.
The patient was discharged with the following diagnoses: ACR occlusion and ACII secondary to adenopatic▁conglomerate compression and hypercoagulable state for malignancy and polyglobulia for malignancy.
After discharge, in December 2013, the patient was evaluated again in the outpatient clinic with restarting stimulanthin-like illness (CBDCA)-5FU at 90% and colony factor-CDFU, with radiological stability after 3 cycles.
In addition, thrombosis of the right external iliac artery (EDIA) persisting chronic thrombosis in the common aarotid artery izda (CC), so that at this moment anticoagulation with low weight heparin is initiated.
After two more cycles of tto (6 cycles in total), progression of the left laterocervical mass is observed, thus initiating a second line with weekly paclitaxel and cetuximab disappears after April 2014, with very good cycles.
It receives 4 more cycles with the same scheme and is currently being treated with maintenance cetuximab without evidence of disease.
There is persistence of an anopsia of the left eye that has not recovered and needs monthly phlebotomy in order to maintain a hematocrit <50%.
The patient continued on anticoagulation due to persistent ACCI and AIED thrombosis.
