Anamnesis This is a 58-year-old woman, with no toxic habits, with a history of allergic asthma and anxiety syndrome in psychiatric follow-up and treated with bromazepam, paroxetine and escitabine.
Surgical history included hysterectomy, saphenectomy.
The patient was brought to the emergency department by his family due to confusion and cognitive impairment of several days of evolution.
The family reports that the patient has progressive cognitive impairment of three weeks of evolution accompanied in the last days of memory impairment, visual impairments and self-lytic thoughts.
In addition, it presents the appearance of a right submandibular tumor of several months of evolution that has progressively increased in size without other accompanying symptoms.
Establishment plan 1.
Aware and oriented.
Palpation of a mass in the right mandibular angle of hard consistency, without peripheral adenopathies.
Neurological examination revealed bipsychia, tremor in the upper limbs without loss of strength, amnesia and body dysesthesia. No other neurological deficits were observed and the rest of the physical examination was normal.
▁Complementary tests - ANALYTIC SANGUINEA: no alterations.
Urine toxicology negative
- CHOGRAPHY OF REROIDS AND CUEL, solid lesions of a ganglionic nature are observed in the right cervical region with palpable lesion, the largest TILO with heterogeneous diameter being the largest TILO.
- CUELLO TAC: medial laterocervical mass of the suggestive muscle, also contralateral muscle and lateral contour to the main cervical vessels, which medially displaces approximately 3.1 cm in anteroposterior diameter and 2.3 cm transversely.
- FIBROBRONCOSCOPIA: A rough image is observed at the level of the right glossopharyngeal fold, biopsy is taken without evidence of malignant cells.
- CRANECT: No findings suggestive of acute intracranial pathology - ASPIR▁FUND WITH FINA AUJA (PAAF):▁Right laterocervical mass index - poorly differentiated carcinoma
Immunohistochemical study: Positive for CK AE1/AE2 and CD 56, focal positive for CK 7 and CK 5/6, positive for CK 20, Vimentin and CD 45.
- PET-CT: It confirms the presence of a 36 mm single major axis adenopathy with pathological SUVmax.
Diagnosis of undifferentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown origin (probable ENT area).
Treatment A radical right bundle was achieved by removing a right subdigestive ganglion block, removing internal jugular vein and removing 3 positive nodes for poorly differentiated carcinoma.
Pathological Anatomy▁Outcomes: poorly differentiated carcinoma.
Immunohistochemistry: Positive for PAN-CK, EMA, P63 and focally and tenuously for CD10.
and negative for CK7, CK20, TTF1, RE, VIMENTINA, CD45, ALK, CDK5/6, CK34BE12 and S100.
Diagnosis of undifferentiated metastatic adenopatic carcinoma of probable otorhinolaryngological origin is proposed chemotherapy with Carboplatin at an area dose under the curve of 2 (AUC 2) weekly and concomitant radiotherapy.
Ev in the days following surgery, prior to the beginning of treatment, presents clinical manifestations with progressive memory impairment, parasomnias and severe worsening of paralysis and facial bradykinesia with severe dyskinesia.
Cerebral Magnetic Resonance Imaging (NMR) was requested, and findings suggestive of bilateral, symmetrical encephalopathy of the amygdala and hippocampus were observed.
An etiologic study was initiated with an autoimmunity panel (Antibodies Antifisine, CV2, PNMA2 Anti Ri, Anti Yo, Vitamin Hu) and serological determination (HIV 1 and 2, syphilis and hepatitis).
The patient begins adjuvant treatment with weekly Carboplatin AUC 2 concomitant with Radiotherapy IMRT and receives a total of 60 Gy on right Ib, II, III and V ganglionic levels, and a total of 54 Gy on right.
Dermitis G2 presented as relevant toxicity.
After the beginning of treatment, the patient presents progressive improvement of the symptoms persists a slight left facial paralysis, tremor, failures in the right upper limb and visual dysesthesias and presents improvement of memory disorders, seizures.
Brain MRI was performed two months after diagnosis of improvement of encephalitis without evidence of foci with abnormal uptake.
The patient presented progressive improvement of symptoms and currently only persists with tremor in the right upper limb.
Follow up periodic controls on On Medical Consultations, with no evidence of relapse after 12 months of follow-up.
