Anamnesis A 65-year-old woman, allergic to colchicine and diclofenac derivatives.
No cardiovascular risk factors or chronic medication.
The only antecedent was severe kyphoscoliosis. She had undergone hysterectomy with double adnexectomy and removal of a neurofibroma.
▁Oncological history: in July 2017, the patient was diagnosed with renal cell carcinoma of the left clear cells, stage IV, with pulmonary and lymph node involvement.
In August that same year, treatment with sunitinib 50 mg/24 h (scheme 4/6) was started as the first line of metastatic disease.
One month after the beginning of the treatment, the patient came to the emergency department for presenting overt hematuria for the last four days.
She did not report any micturition syndrome or fever.
It was only associated with isolated episodes of vomiting with food content, without abdominal pain or alteration of gastrointestinal transit.
Physical status Afebrile and hemodynamically stable.
Karnofsky Index 70 %.
Mucocutaneous Pallor.
No hematomas or lymphadenopathies were observed.
Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examination was normal.
▁Complementary tests The laboratory tests at admission showed leukocytes 3,400/mcl, hemoglobin 10.9 g/dl, with normal mean corpuscular volume and normal mean corpuscular hemoglobin, platelets urea 43.89/dl 77
The urine system on admission showed negative nitrites and sediment 25-50 leukocytes per field.
The chest X-ray showed well-known pulmonary nodules, but no other relevant findings were observed.
Diagnosis » Kidney damage stage IV in treatment with sunitinib.
» Grade 4 thrombus secondary to antiangiogenic treatment.
» Haematuria secondary to thrombocytopenia.
Treatment of▁frank hematuria consisted of placing a bladder catheter for continuous bladder lavage, transexamic acid 0.5g/8h was administered and a platelet concentrate was transfused, with mild clinical and analytical improvement.
During admission, daily blood counts were performed, showing a progressive decrease in platelet count, so low-dose corticoid therapy (methylprednisolone 20 mg/12 h) was administered, without increasing this parameter.
Despite treatment, the patient continued with hematuria and platelet count of 6,000/mcl, so a peripheral smear was requested, this figure was checked and other morphological changes were ruled out.
According to Haematology, corticoids were increased at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day and intravenous immunoglobulin was administered (1 g/kg for 48 hours).
After this treatment, platelet counts progressively increased until discharge 41,000/mcl.
During hospitalization, transfusion of six platelet concentrates was required.
In addition, as complications, she presented bilateral epistaxis requiring nasal packing by otorhinolaryngology, and urinary tract infection secondary to vesical catheterization.
More than 100,000 CFU/ml of Enterococcus faecalis and Escherichia coli susceptible to nitrofurin were isolated in the urocultiva, so treatment with this antibiotic was performed and bladder catheter was replaced.
The goals established at the time of hospital discharge were to definitively remove sunitinib and treatment with nivolumab 3 mg/kg/every 15 days was started as a second line of treatment for metastatic disease.
Currently, it is in partial response (PR) after 13 cycles of this anti-PD-1.
