Anamnesis After the third cycle, the patient was admitted for grade 3 diarrhea and non-neutropenic fever +6 secondary to left pneumonia. Streptococcus from the mitis group was isolated from hemocultives on all baseline days.
During his stay in the plant, the reassessment by means of (CT) is carried out showing a partial response at the hepatic level, so it is decided, along with General Surgery, to request the hepatic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for excision.
After discharge at the end of August, the patient required early readmission, with symptoms consistent with dyspnea at rest and data of biventricular heart failure.
Physical examination revealed a diastolic murmur in the aortic area and a third cardiac tonus, as well as bilateral crackles that greatly hindered cardiac auscultation and significant bilateral edema with fovea.
▁Complementary tests A transthoracic echocardiogram was requested to document an aortic valve endocarditis that conditions severe aortic insufficiency with secondary acute pulmonary edema.
Diagnosis Infectious aortic stenosis on native valve secondary to Streptococcus sanguinis.
Treatment is evaluated by Cardiovascular Surgery, performing urgent aortic valve replacement in September 2016.
Streptococcus sanguinis was isolated in the culture of the valvular lesion, and an appropriate antibiotic treatment was given.
As wound healing complications during the postoperative period, the patient presents a radiation cyst valued by Ur that needs transfusions of blood products, as well as continuous bladder.
Urine cytology and cystoscopy were performed without evidence of malignancy or lesions.
The patient was discharged and, after a decision of the multidisciplinary committee, a resection of liver metastases of segment II and VIII was performed in December 2016, without incidents.
After postoperative recovery and documenting absence of systemic disease on body CT, adjuvant treatment with oxaliplatin-capecitabine (XELOX) was completed for 6 cycles, with only grade 1 neurotoxicity.
He completed the treatment in June 2017 and requested a body CT, persisting absence of disease, so it is maintained in reviews currently.
