A 75-year-old woman was referred to the emergency department by primary care physicians.
10 days before, he began to present pain and swelling in the right▁parotid region.
Echocardiography showed dilation of the ducts and lithiasis inside.
48h later, the patient deteriorated and oral ATB was pautomated without any improvement.
The physical examination showed: right cervical bultoma in area II-III of 6cm under tension.
The skin was erythematous and warm, and subcutaneous nodules had a white content (impression of purulent material near fistulization).
In the oral cavity and oropharynx: no significant alterations were observed along with fibrolaryngoscopy, without significant alterations.
28 mm. An urgent cervical CT was performed, which was reported as a hypodense collection of thickened, irregular and hyperemic walls in the right lateral cervical space, located lateral to the angle of the jaw and superficial measures x carotid space.
Acquired thickening of the skin and superficial fascial planes, as well as fat involvement of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, compatible with locoregional inflammatory changes.
It is accompanied by ipsilateral laterocervical lymph nodes with reactive appearance in IIA and IIb stations.
The findings described are compatible with second-arm brachial cyst complicated with inflammatory-infectious process, without ruling out underlying malignant process.
Once the diagnosis was established, the patient was admitted to hospital for intravenous ATB treatment and followed up cervical collection.
At the beginning of admission, the collection began to fistulize and drain spontaneously, which contributed to drainage under local anesthesia with the exit of abundant purulent material, which was sent to microbiology.
The microbiology result contributed to the growth of Eikenella corrodens sensitive to penicillin, cefoxime, vancomycin, levofloxacin and clindamycin among other ATBs.
The patient was covered from admission with ceftriaxone and vancomycin.
The patient was discharged 8 days after admission.
Subsequently, he came to several dressings in an ambulatory way and one month after discharge, in consultation, a complete improvement was objective with a completely healed drainage wound.
A control echocardiogram was requested, which was performed 2 months after admission, and no significant changes were observed.
