Anamnesis A 57-year-old woman with no known drug allergies or toxic habits, who, as a non-cancer history of interest, had obesity treated surgically with gastric bypass in June 2001 as well as a breast cyst resection in 2009.
She had no family history of cancer.
The origin of the patient's history dates back to a positive grade Fe2 tumor, presenting as the first symptom a self-palpable nodule on the right breast with an ultrasound-BAG compatible with a heterogeneous image of 50x23 mm PR in the right breast.
The PET-CT showed lymph nodes in the axillary territory, internal mammary artery and ipsilateral supraclavicular area without images suggestive of systemic metastases.
Our patient started neoadjuvant treatment with CBDP/docetaxel for six cycles between March and July 2014 and underwent surgery in August 2014 by right modified radical mastectomy.
The pathology of the surgical specimen was compatible with triple negative ICD with a total of eleven lymph nodes affected of the 25 examined.
笆・valuated as pT1N3M0, after the intervention, our patient continued with adjuvant treatment according to scheme FEC (5-Fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide) for three cycles, total radiotherapy on bed.
In total, in 2015 a CT scan was performed performing abdominal control, liver progression, with the appearance of 3 liver metastases, then starting a first line treatment of metastatic disease with Capecitabine versus March 2015.
In April 2015 our patient came to the emergency department with a history of 72 hours of sudden dyspnea, chest pain and dry cough not associated with fever or expectoration.
Physical examination at the emergency room showed a conserved general condition, with hemodynamically stable, afflicted, and saturation levels of 88% in room air.
On physical examination, there were no alterations in pulmonary auscultation or signs of heart failure.
笆，omplementary tests Analytically highlighted platelet count 28 x10E9/L (normal range 147-386 x10E9/L) and elevated D-dipsia with no other changes of interest.
As part of the initial studies, an electrocardiogram was requested, which showed right bundle branch block not present in previous studies, without other pathological findings.
The chest X-ray showed no signs of heart failure or images suggestive of an infectious process.
In addition, since the patient was an obese patient with a recent onset of chest pain, enzymes of myocardial damage that resulted in a normal range were requested at the analytical level.
After the result of the initial tests, and under the suspicion of pulmonary thromboembolism, a pulmonary angio-CT was performed, which showed increased caliber of the pulmonary artery trunk (31 mm) as well as signs of retracted pulmonary artery opacities in repleural filling and small volumeless parenchymal opacities of parenchymal opacities in the presence of parenchymal opacities of parenchymal opacities in previous patchy
Blood cultures were requested at admission, which were negative, as well as sputum and PCR for respiratory viruses, without microbiological isolations in any of the samples.
From the analytical point of view, CA-3 antigen resulted in 152.4 U/mL (normal range - 3-155.0 U/mL).
Diagnosis of images suggestive of right overload by CT angiography and symptoms of chest pain, the patient was assessed by Cardiology.
An echocardiogram was performed that described signs of right overload, ventricular septal displacement and absence of inferior vena cava collapse with笆（nspiration, ruling out segmental changes in ischemic笆…ontractility indicative of ischemic heart disease.
Associated findings were present in the echocardiogram prior to the start of cancer treatment.
All the images described above in relation to CT angiography and echocardiogram, together with the patient's clinical picture, were compatible with acute pulmonary hypertension.
Treatment Because our patient was in a rapidly progressive respiratory failure situation, and although the clinical picture was little suggestive of an infectious process, antibiotic therapy with piperazilin/ta high flow began as empirical therapy began.
In spite of this, the patient presented to the emergency room with a torpid form, progressively increasing requests for medication and the arrival of hypotension refractory to serum therapy, which finally required the start of vasoactive support and cardiac monitoring in 48.
As soon as the acute pulmonary hypertension is ruled out, this is a woman affected by a negative triple breast neoplasia with recent onset of first-line treatment with gemcitabine/capecitabine having presented an acute dyspnea secondary to pulmonary hypertension
At this time, the option of a pulmonary tumor thrombotic microangiopathy was evaluated as the cause of acute pulmonary hypertension.
To complete the diagnosis, a gammagraphy was requested, which showed small filling defects with patchy distribution, and the presumptive diagnosis was then made.
Our patient progressively developed right heart failure despite supportive measures.
The patient was evaluated by the Intensive Care Team and was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for intubation, but the patient ended up dying 96 hours after arrival at the Emergency Room.
The necropsy report described a posteriori findings of massive thrombotic microangiopathy with pulmonary edema and hemorrhage with the presence of tumor cells in the pulmonary capillary lumen in the form of a cormegaly and signs of heart failure.
The images attached to the report are shown below.
All microbiological cultures of lung, liver and splenic tissue were negative.
The ascitic and pericardial fluid, as well as the hemocultives that were initially studied, did not present microbiological isolations.
Therefore, the diagnosis of pulmonary tumor thrombotic microangiopathy was definitive as the main cause of acute pulmonary hypertension and death of our patient.
