Anamnesis 47 year old woman allergic to iodine, social smoker, intervened with varices, two cesarean sections and a glue abscess.
No other relevant medical history or usual treatment.
She lives with her husband and three children, and works as a teacher.
The patient developed iron deficiency anemia that did not improve after one year of evolution despite oral iron therapy.
A neoformation at 60 cm from the anal margin was observed with a positive biopsy for adenocarcinoma.
A complete study was performed by means of body CT and liver MRI, which showed the presence of at least four liver metastases in both lobes, the largest of them 15 mm in diameter.
Having established the results, it was initially decided to surgically approach the primary one and, depending on intraoperative findings, also to perform an intervention on liver metastases.
In February/2017 a laparoscopic sigmoidectomy was performed with intraoperative ultrasound, where multiple liver metastases were observed; at least 3 in the left liver lobe and 5 of small size in the right, so they were not operated on.
The pathological study of the surgical specimen confirmed colon adenocarcinoma (pT3), with metastasis in 5 of the 30▁resected lymph nodes (pN2a); without loss of expression of repairing proteins and with mutation in the ex.
After surgery, a case is presented in a multidisciplinary session, including perioperative chemotherapy treatment and assessing resection of liver metastases based on the response.
In March/2017, treatment with XELOX started, which was given for 4 cycles.
Re-evaluation CT and MRI showed liver progression, so a second line with FOLFIRI-aflcept was established.
After 6 cycles, serological and radiological response was observed, so in November/2017, metastasectomy of liver lesions was performed.
Initially, the patient had a good evolution, but on the second postoperative day, he began with hemodynamic instability.
Physical impairment At the time of our assessment at the General Surgery Unit, the patient presented TA 69/40 mm Hg, heart rate 120 bpm, rest tachypnea, mucocutaneous nausea, distal perfusion a.
The abdomen is blade, has no peritonitis and the abdominal drainage output remains unchanged.
▁Complementary tests Urgent CT is requested in which no acute postoperative complications are seen, but moderate pericardial effusion is observed, which, in transthoracic ultrasound, conditions cardiac tamponade.
Pericardiocentesis was performed with evacuation of 380 ml of sero liquid and leukocytes▁exudate characteristics (pH < 7.2, LDH, high cholesterol and protein, low glucose) and with large amounts (90 % polymorph).
The pleural effusion developed favorably a month later, but the patient became infected with pleural effusion.
This patient required a new pericardiocentesis and a pleuroperisis window.
Troponins were normal at all times.
Due to the unusual presentation, with a pericardial fluid negative for malignant cells, a study with numerous tests was completed.
Immunological study with antinuclear antibodies, rheumatoid factor and complement were normal.
In addition, the presence of markers suggestive of lymphoma in the pericardial fluid was ruled out.
The serology of Coxisteinella burni parlae, Bartonella hense, Borrelia burgdorferi, Entamoeba histolytica, Toxoplasma gondii, herpes simplex virus 1 and negative
However, a positive Brucella rose test was detected, Coombs' test and agglutinations were also positive with a title 1/40.
Diagnosis In this context, the diagnosis of pericardial effusion secondary to brucellosis is established in a patient with a history of colon adenocarcinoma pT3 pN2a pM1 (hepatic), with mutation in KRAS exon 2.
Treatment With findings, treatment with hydroxychloroquine and hydroxychloroquine began, and the patient had to discontinue hydroxychloroquine at the third month due to liver function test abnormalities.
Emergence after 6 months of treatment achieved serological negativization (Title 1/20) and pericardial effusion did not recur again.
With regard to oncological disease, follow-up continued without evidence of disease until July/2018, which documented liver and lymph node relapse.
Treatment with FOLFIRI-a inflict of that which has received up to now 18 cycles with thrombopenia grade 2 as the only toxicity was resumed.
At last PET of March/2019, the disease is stable.
The patient keeps on receiving EC 0, has an active life, continues giving English lessons to her students and travels once a year to Australia where she lives with her adoptive family.
