Anamnesis An 8-year-old male child, with no drug allergies, no personal history or surgical interventions of interest, except recurrent wheezing in early childhood.
She has no family history of cancer.
He's a single son, both parents are healthy and sick with a dog.
Do not take medication regularly.
In August 2016, the child suffered a banal trauma in the dorsolumbar area.
From then on, the patient presented with localized pain in the lumbosacra region which, two months later, irradiates to the left, increases with the sitting position and limits the flexion of the axial skeleton.
It also associates pain in the scapula and right subcostal area, as well as unquantified weight loss, hypoxia and asthenia.
In October 2016, we added depositions of harder consistency with mucous content and red blood cells.
She has no fever or consumption of non-pasteurized products throughout the process, as well as other symptoms caused by equipment.
From external consultations of bone marrow, magnetic resonance imaging of lumbar spine was requested 06/10/16 showing bone marrow generalized pelvic▁tilt in bone marrow is axial skeleton and channel blockage was confirmed in axial cells and / or bone marrow segment invasion (BD10).
The surprising finding of suspected gastrointestinal neoplasia with the tests performed is derived to the Pediatric Ward to complete the study.
Body weight: 26 kg, height: 126 cm.
Pallor of the skin and mucous membranes
No lymphadenopathies.
Sweat.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal.
Abdomen was painless during bleaching, without masses or enlargement.
Pain in the right sacroiliac joint and left hip rotation
Limitation of flexion at the lumbar level.
Severe pain when you get out of the bed.
Healing posture with impossibility of standing, weakness of lower limbs and severe pain during standing.
▁Complementary tests after visiting the Pediatric Ward, the following tests were obtained: » Analytical (16/10/16): biochemistry, hemogram and coagulation without relevant alterations.
» Proteinogram: normal.
Iron metabolism: ferritin 1.416 μg/l (30-400), normal rest.
» Upper endoscopy (19/10/16) showed normal esophagus, stomach and duodenum.
Colonoscopy (19/10/16): ulcerated mass of about 3 cm in length from 2 cm of anal margin to 5 cm in right rectal margin that biopsy with well-defined limits.
Colon remnant in the ileum without lesions.
» Pathology of rectal biopsy (19/10/16): colon adenocarcinoma with signet ring cells with apparent loss of PMS2 expression and microsatellite stability.
Mutation in exon 4 of the KRAS gene (25/11/16).
» Chest computed tomography (CT) (21/10/16): left pleural effusion without evacuation criteria with pleural implant at the 4th rib level of 10 mm, rib metastases already evidenced by scintigraphy.
There are no parenchymal lung metastases.
« RNM» reaches an extrapelvic fascial length (24/10/16): a tumor in the inferior and middle rectum 15 mm from the anal margin that contacts with an internal anal sphincter, with an annular, eccentric and ulcerated vascular wall.
It was accompanied by multiple mesorectal (5 mm) and bilateral internal iliac (9 mm) lymph nodes.
Heterogeneity of bone marrow suggestive of metastatic bone dissemination and small amount of free peritoneal fluid (T3dN2M1).
Diagnosis Adenocarcinoma of the rectum of mutated KRAS signet ring cells (exon 4), stage IV with lymph node, bone, pleural and bone marrow involvement.
Spinal cord compression syndrome in this context, with associated neuropatic pain.
Treatment Following confirmation of metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma, treatment with chemotherapy (CT) was initiated on 21/10/2017 on FOLFOXIRI regimen (follic acid, 5-FU, oxaliplatin positive bone marrow response) with confirmed no
As toxicity, only highlight diarrhea G1 and neurotoxicity in fingertips G1.
Enlargement was achieved with radiation therapy, continued QT FOLF ( 5-FU acid) + folinic acid plus an excellent follow-up with 617 penal cycles.
