Anamnesis diagnosed in December 2012 of renal cell carcinoma after an incidental finding on ultrasound examination.
The case is presented in the Urological Tumors Committee, which, because it is a localized disease, without involvement at another level in an extension study, was decided radical nephrectomy with curative intent.
Pathology confirmed the diagnosis of clear cell renal carcinoma staged as T3aN0M0.
The patient continues to be followed up in outpatient clinics using imaging tests 11 and remains in complete response until March 2014 when, on reassessment CT, progression to the lung level with multiple bilateral pulmonary nodules mm of a size is identified.
As the patient was classified as having a good prognosis according to the Heng classification, first-line antiangiogenic treatment with pazopanib 800 mg/day orally was initiated.
As toxicity secondary to pazopanib, cutaneous diarrhea and white hair coloration, asthenia grade 3, dysgeusia grade 2 and grade 2 required dose reduction to 600 mg/day with good tolerance.
She continued treatment with oopanib, presenting partial response during the course of the disease, and subsequently remaining in stable disease with mediastinal involvement and a visible single lung injury in the upper lobe adenopathy treatment continued with peace of the pancreas.
After four years with stable disease maintained with pazopanib, on February 2018 CT, the patient presented a new progression at the pulmonary level, with recurrence of pulmonary lesions at diagnosis.
He started second-line treatment with immunotherapy with nonvolumab, analytical petaxis with stabilization of his oncological disease until in June 2018 (5 months after starting treatment with nivolumab), showing bleeding in lower extremities due to bleeding
Suspicion of immune mediated toxicity was suspected, direct and indirect Coombs test was requested, both negative and serology of virus, with a positive result for parvovirus B19.
The possibility of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura grade 4 secondary to nivolumab was assessed, and treatment with corticoid therapy was initiated with recovery of platelet counts.
The patient had no doubt that the hematologic condition was secondary to antibiotics that the patient had received in the previous month due to respiratory infection or triggered by viral symptoms, it was decided to restart treatment with nivolumab.
One month later, the patient came to the emergency department with fever 39 oC, increased cough without expectoration, dyspnea on moderate exertion for four days.
Establishment plan 1.
Stay hemodynamically.
Tachypnea during conversation
During cardiopulmonary auscultation: rhythmic tones, cardiac crackles.
Lower extremities: increased edema with mild fovea without signs of deep vein thrombosis.
▁Complementary tests Blood count and biochemistry including ionogram, renal function and liver function tests showed no alterations.
Gastritis - respiratory failure
Chest radiography: pulmonary infiltrates predominantly right.
Chest CT: extensive interstitial involvement predominantly in the right hemithorax with reticular pattern predominance secondary to immunotherapy.
Areas of consolidation in the right upper lobe in relation to superinfection.
During hospitalization, she reported persistent fatigue, generalized weakness, nausea and vomiting.
Hormonal profile was requested, highlighting hypothyroidism and adrenal insufficiency secondary to new onset.
It was decided to complete the study by cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium without objectifying pathological uptakes, pituitary of normal size, morphology and situation.
Diagnosis » Grade 3 immune-mediated pneumonitis secondary to treatment with nivolumab.
» Panhypopituitarism secondary to grade 2 pituitary gland caused by nivolumab.
Treatment of pneumonitis; collaboration with the Infectious Diseases Unit was requested to rule out a etiology of superinfection.
Treatment with nivolumab is stopped.
Intravenous methylprednisolone 1 mg/kg/day was administered, empirical antibiotic therapy was added and▁bronchoscopy was performed with negative microbiological results.
For the management of panhypopituitarism, we work together with endocrinology with corticoid treatment and hormone supplementation.
The patient developed a torpid evolution, with a longstanding complicated admission with cardiac failure HF and de novo atrial fibrillation that required treatment adjustment by the cardiologist.
As secondary complications to high doses and prolonged use of corticoids, the patient developed a maniac-depressive syndrome requiring psychosomatic control.
After recovery of the clinical picture requiring admission, and despite there is no progression of the oncological disease in imaging tests, given the impossibility of continuing with immunotherapy for secondary toxicity Grade 4 pituitary mucopopliteal
As a clinic that has limited its quality of life during this time has been persistence of grade 3 asthenia and exacerbation of its habitual dyspnea, which is why it has required follow-up by Cardiology, detected by left ventricular ejection fraction around 20%.
Currently, the risk-benefit ratio of maintaining treatment with cabozantinib should be assessed, although it is known that this treatment would worsen dyspnea and asthenia and it has been decided to restart cabozantinib at a reduced dose (40 mg/day).
