Anamnesis This is a 58-year-old man who has been an ex-smoker for 18 years with a pack-year index 44.
His personal history included hypertension treated with valsartan-hydrochlorothiazideol and manpinium, diabetes mellitus controlled with metformin, obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome treated with CPAP, and allopurin controlled hyperuricemia.
Regarding surgical interventions, we highlight a left breast myofibroblastoma removed in 2016.
▁Oncological history In March 2018 he was diagnosed with a right bronchial adenocarcinoma cT4 (a mass of 9 cm with primary lobe compression secondary to non-vascular stage and possible tracheal stage) cN3 (paraaortic left lung cancer plus CT scan).
At the molecular level, it showed positive expression of PD-L1 (100 %), negative EGFR, negative ROS-1 and no ALK translocation.
After commenting on the case in a thoracic tumor committee, the following therapeutic strategy was defined: chemotherapy with oral cisplatin and vinorelbine and subsequent evaluation and evaluation of chemotherapy with new concomitant chemotherapy cycle CT from the third committee onward.
On day + 10 first cycle, the patient came to the emergency department for significant hemostasis with clots and acute deterioration of renal function associated with general▁malaise and fluid intake and vomiting associated with hemodialysis therapy and supportive care.
Given the severity of hemoptysis, it is proposed to start treatment with hemostatic radiotherapy.
On the day after its onset, the patient presented a sudden worsening of the general condition with acute respiratory failure (mask therapy with mask with 100 % restriction with O2 deterioration ranging from 70 to 85
Physical examination revealed PS 3 and right hemithorax 2/3.
The patient is dyspneic at rest with around 70-85 % fixations with mask with 100 % reservoir.
It maintains adequate control of blood pressure.
▁Complementary tests After the sudden onset of dyspnea, arterial gas was requested, with the objective of hypoxemia partial pressure of oxidising 58.2 mm Hg.
suspected right pleural effusion was requested transthoracic echography and chest X-ray where a large mass of right hilia was observed that caused atelectasis right main bronchus with involvement of the carina and obstructive pneumonitis with large component.
Blood tests showed a decrease in glomerular filtration rate 26 (previous 67) with an increase in creatinine levels of 2.55 mg/dl (previous 0.9 mg/dl).
Diagnosis Partial respiratory failure secondary to atelectasis due to tumor invasion of the right main bronchus and acute renal failure in relation to cisplatin nephrotoxicity, with a fundamentally prerenal component due to decreased intake and vomiting.
Treatment Initially, non-invasive mechanical ventilation was started with 100 % IPAP 26, EPAP 11, FR 18 rpm FIO2 with around 90 % oxygen ventilation.
Subsequently, due to poor tolerance of NIMV due to vomiting, a mask with 100 % reservoir was placed.
Glucocorticoids were added when a certain degree of inflammatory component was suspected.
The possibility of performing▁bronchoscopy was assessed in order to assess whether there were options for local therapy of obstruction, but finally this option was rejected by the corresponding services.
The patient was admitted with a respiratory condition clearly affected, and he underwent hemoptoic expectoration accompanied by a solid tumor material of 5 cm.
There was practically an improvement in the respiratory rate, requiring no mask with a 100 % reervory, and immediate respiratory failures due to oxyhemoglobin saturation 92-93 at 2 bpm.
A new chest X-ray showed a clear improvement in obstructive pneumonitis and atelectasis.
This improvement started on the following days of admission, allowing hospital discharge after seven days of admission.
At discharge, the patient was eupneic and did not require additional steroid therapy. Renal function was corrected after intravenous hydration.
Hemostatic radiotherapy was continued due to the persistence of hemoptysis, although in much smaller quantity.
He came to the day hospital on the scheduled date and the second cycle was administered with a dose reduction of 80 %, given the toxicity experienced.
