Anamnesis A 79-year-old man presented with allergic beta-thermic reaction with fever and oxaliptin. The patient came to the emergency department in August 2017 due to a right-sided burn C.
During the anamnesis, she complained of pleuritic pain in the left field, dyspnea, expectoration, and increased edema in the lower limbs.
The oncological history began in September 2011, when the patient was diagnosed with native mixed mucinous colon adenocarcinoma RAS, with vascular invasion, initially in stage T3N0M0 and treated with surgery.
In January 2012, liver recurrence was observed, so chemotherapy was initiated with FOLFOX (leucovorin c after resection December fluorouracil and oxaliplatin) + chemotherapy for three hepatic segments was performed until 2013, obtaining a partial response.
The patient was treated with 5-FU (5-fluoracil) + betaizumab x 8 cycles.
In October 2014 computed tomography (CT), progression was observed with bilateral pulmonary nodules suggesting metastatic involvement.
Treatment was initiated with FOLFIRI (leucovorin with new cálora, decides that fluorouracil and irinotecán hydrochloride) + panitumumab, and received a total of 5 cycles, with regular tolerance,
On the last CT scan of February 2017, pulmonary nodules persisting, predominantly in the left hemithorax with areas of cavitation.
At the time of the emergency consultation, treatment had been suspended (April 2017), with 3 admissions since then for respiratory infection treated with chemotherapy piperacillin-ta and meropenem levofloxacin.
After being evaluated by the Support Team for Patient Care (ESAD) of the zone for progression despite treatment and worsening of performance status (PS), therapeutic rest had been decided.
erythematous exeresis, during physical examination, highlights the presence of bilateral perimale edema with foveal pressure and punctiform wounds on the back of the distal third of the lower jaw of the lower jaw, which is mild
Bilateral inguinal lymphadenopathies of less than 1 cm, of elastic consistency, cold, not adhered to deep planes were established.
There are no other significant findings except for hepatomegaly of the 2nd finger of the left hepatic lobe.
During cardiopulmonary auscultation, rhythmic cardiac tones, without murmurs; and vesicular murmur preserved without excessive noise.
▁Complementary tests Blood analysis showed leukocytosis (18.20 10 E3/mcl), with 83 % neutrophils, and CRP of 11.0 mg/dl; without significant changes in the other parameters.
A chest X-ray showed no obvious changes compared to the previous ones.
On chest CT, at the level of the pulmonary parenchyma, nodular opacities with a broad cavitary morphology are observed, located in the left upper lobe, while the rest of the well-known opacities show progressive growth.
In addition, numerous opacities are also observed in both lung bases.
Having these findings in mind the radiological evolution, it is considered a diagnostic possibility for mycobacterial infections.
A microbiological study was then requested, highlighting positive TB IFERON®, as well as Quantification in 3 sputum samples of 50 BAAR/field, with no mutation to rifampicin.
Diagnosis Given the results of the microbiological study, the diagnosis of respiratory infection is made, with a final diagnosis of bacilliferous pulmonary tuberculosis.
Treatment included in the current recommendations for the treatment of rifampicin-sensitive Mycobacterium tuberculosis, antibiotic treatment with etambuco hydrochloride 6 months was initiated, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and rifampicin should be maintained.
Removal of pulmonary lesions is clearly visible with the Radiology Department from 2014 to the present day, given the evolution of pulmonary nodules and pulmonary lesions, and having been diagnosed with TB, we conclude the nature of the undefined pulmonary lesions.
Since the patient has active infectious process, no oncological treatment is currently proposed until its resolution.
It is worth noting that, in the last review of the medical consultation on mental illness 2018, the patient reported an improvement in the general state, without symptoms of dyspnea, fever, cough or expectoration.
Continue antibiotic treatment for tuberculosis.
The CT performed in November 2017 showed improvement of cavitated lesion of the LSI, compared to a previous study, without signs of recurrence.
