Anamnesis Male, 70 years old: » No known drug allergies.
» Benign prostatic hyperplasia.
» Hyperuricaemia.
» He was diagnosed with hepatitis C virus genotype 1 in 2004, receiving treatment with sobuvir and daclatasvir, and subsequently the viral load was undetectable after treatment.
» Usual treatment: lansoprazole, tamsulosin, allopurinol.
ONCOLÓGICA clinical course and oncology patient attended the progressive symptomatology consultation in March 2014, presenting a 2.5 cm diameter nodular lesion on the left arm growth of 4 months.
Initially, the lesion is asymptomatic, with skin color initially, and later it became asymptomatic.
The patient was treated with surgery with the following anatomopathological result after resection of the lesion: Merke cutaneous carcinoma, nodular morphology and subcutaneous fat thickness 1.8 cm.
It remains less than 1 mm from the deep surgical edge.
The rest of the edges are free.
Images of vascular and/or lymphatic invasion are observed.
Selective biopsy of the sentinel node was performed, which was positive for tumor cells, leading to the commission of tumors to propose lymphadenectomy and expansion of surgical margins.
In May 2014, a standard left axillary lymphadenectomy was performed with negative pathology for the 10▁resected lymph nodes.
He was then treated with radiotherapy from June 2 to September 5, at a dose of 60 Gy, presenting as toxicity grade 3 epithelitis, and was subsequently followed up by medical consultations on "non-medical".
Current disease During follow-up on medical biopsy, a CT scan of the▁thorax was performed by means of a control duplex scan in September 2015; a mass in the pancreatic region was found with positive AP for metastasis of Merkel cell carcinoma
Physical training' Conscious and
Eupneic at rest.
oral mucosa without alterations.
EC 0.
« AC: un soplos.
AP: MVC without overlapping sounds.
Abdomen: RHA+, blade, depressible, without signs of peritoneal irritation.
There are no data on skin lesions in the upper or lower limbs.
» Weight: 80 kg.
▁Complementary tests Complete analytical: no alterations.
Diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma with pancreatic recurrence.
Treatment With the diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma with pancreatic recurrence, the patient begins treatment with double-blind chemotherapy:
Complications include grade I neutropenia and grade I mucositis. A total of 6 cycles of deplatiny-taxol image were obtained, initially responding to treatment and reducing the control mass on tests.
Later on, on the May 2016 CT, she presents data of progression of her underlying pathology, visualizing a left adrenal nodule along with the previous residual pancreatic mass.
At this time, due to the progression of the disease, a second line of treatment with cisplatin-etoposide is proposed, receiving a single cycle due to poor tolerance, requiring hospital admission for grade III febrile neutropenia and grade III thrombocytopenia.
Therapeutic options are discussed with the patient.
At this time, a phase II pembrolizumab trial for Merkel cell carcinoma has been described in the literature.
With this information, it was decided to use pembrolizumab as monotherapy at doses of 2 mg/kg every 3 weeks without indication of the technical file.
It received the first cycle in July 2016, presenting symptomatic improvement of pain after 10 days.
A control CT scan was performed in September, after the third cycle of treatment, showing a marked improvement compared to the previous one, with resolution of the left retroperitoneal mass and left adrenal nodule.
The patient continues later, receiving pembrolizumab for days, presenting as complications in July 2017, rounded off with base blan every round lesion with right-sided psoriasis, compatible with both rounded lesions.
A control PET CT scan was performed in October that year, and the patient was informed of the absence of macroscopic malignant disease from the metabolic point of view.
In the last CT scan performed in February 2018, there were no changes compared to the previous one.
Currently, the patient continues to receive treatment with pembrolizumab, having received cycle number 29 recently.
The patient is asymptomatic, has good general condition and has a sustained greater response of his tumor pathology.
