Anamnesis Female patient, 36 years old, active smoker of 5 pack-years, tingling: exposed to the Chernobyl accident.
She consulted in April 2017 for sudden dyspnea and right pleuritic chest pain.
Physical examination revealed CS 1, while the rest showed no findings.
▁Complementary tests Analytically do not present relevant findings.
Chest radiography: nodular cavitated lesion in LID.
Chest CT angiography: bilateral.
Cavitated mass in the apical segment of the LID was 3.2 cm.
Bilateral paratracheal adenopathies, in pulmonary window and bilateral hiliar.
Bronchoscopy was normal with brushing and a negative BAS for malignancy.
PET/CT: hypermetabolic lesion in LID.
Hypermetabolic right and left paratracheal right and left paratracheal adenopathies, pulmonary window, subcarinal and bilateral hilia.
Multiple retroperitoneal hypermetabolic adenopathies.
A Tru-cut biopsy of a lung mass was performed. The patient reported a negative micropapillary adenocarcinoma TTF1 ++, PD-L1 (Ac 22C3) translocation, with strong▁immunohistochemical expression of ALK.
EGFR native.
Diagnosis A lung adenocarcinoma cT2aN3M1c (8th TNM edition) carrying ALK translocation is therefore diagnosed.
Treatment Crzotinib was started first line in July 2017 at a daily dose of 250 mg every 12 hours.
Partial response was confirmed on abdominal CT scan according to the ACT 1.1 criteria and a complete metabolic response was obtained at 8 weeks.
Since the start of treatment, the patient developed grade 1-2 nausea associated with grade 1 emesis at week 15.
In November 2017, after 19 weeks, the patient consulted due to progressive dysphagia of 15 days of evolution accompanied by centrothoracic pain.
Urgent gastroscopy showed diffuse grayish esophageal mucosa with areas raised to several levels.
Esophageal biopsy showed an esophageal epithelium with destruction of the basal layer, without tapering or viral inclusions.
With the diagnosis of colitis associated with G3 secondary to treatment with crizotinib, treatment is suspended and the patient is admitted to hospital for supportive treatment.
The evolution is favorable, with symptomatic improvement on the fourth day; however, on the tenth day there is a symptomatic worsening consisting of epigastric abdominal pain, which does not respond to analgesic treatment despite the progressive increase in dose.
Physical examination was anodyne.
