Anamnesis A 70-year-old man, with no history of interest, who was referred to the gastroenterology department in November 2017 for a 6-month history of anemia refractory to treatment and dyspepsia.
Physical examination is anodyne.
▁Complementary tests' analytical: Hb 10.5 g/dl, CEA 31.8 ng/ml, Ca 19.9: 1319 U/ml.
» Gastroscopy: at the level of incisure and extending about 3 cm by lesser curvature, and also by the posterior face, identifies an exile lesion with raised edges and fever on the face.
The rest is normal.
PA: intestinal type adenocarcinoma.
HER-2 negative.
» TC-TAP: Adenoptic▁conglomerate at the level of the gastroheptic ligament of about 25 x 40 mm.
The rest is normal.
» Endoscopy: Lesion in lesser curvature that affects 50 % of the circumference with loss of definition of all its layers, infiltrates the adjacent fat and extending from 3 cm below the proximal gastroesophageal junction.
Five lymphadenopathies of unknown appearance were observed.
Diagnosis Gastric adenocarcinoma.
Stage cT4cN2cM0.
Locally advanced gastric adenocarcinoma FLO was treated with neoadjuvant FLOT regimen for 4 cycles (FLOT4-AIO study), radical surgery and subsequent adjuvant therapy with other cycles.
January 2012 and January 2012 at 2018, newadjuvant treatment was started with FLOT regimen (docetaxel 50 mg/m2, folinic acid 200 mg/m2, oxaliplatin 85 mg).
Very good tolerance to treatment.
Nausea and vomiting G1.
After the fourth cycle, the partial response was a decrease in the adenopatic▁conglomerate at the level of the gastroheptic ligament, which currently measures 15 x 25 mm.
Partial radiological response, on day 21/3/2018 total gastrectomy and D2 lymphadenectomy were performed.
Pathological Anatomy shows poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma affecting perigastric tissue reaching the visceral serosa.
Few response to treatment (grade 3 CAP).
Lymphovascular and perineural invasion.
Free bodes.
11 affected nodes in 16.
HER-2 negative.
Stage ypT4apN3acM0.
After the intervention, she received only 2 cycles of adjuvant FLOT.
It is suspended due to digestive maladjustment and toxicity (last cycle on June 20, 2016).
In a review of February 2019, the patient came to consultation with low back pain of 15 days of evolution, accompanied by weakness and loss of strength 3/5 in both lower limbs, as well as urinary incontinence.
The patient was admitted for study.
CT-PTA was performed, showing retroperitoneal lymph node relapse, as well as lung metastases.
Brain MRI and complete spine showed a pseudonodular-type morphological alteration in the horsetail which, after intravenous contrast administration, markedly enhances the metastatic leptomeningeal and nodular morphology with dissemination.
Brain lesions are multiple cerebellar vernix and right radial corona.
Lumbar puncture was performed and cerebrospinal fluid cytology was positive for malignancy.
High-dose corticoids were started and treatment with RT was proposed, but the patient progressively deteriorated neurologically, dying on 21/2/2019, 3 weeks after the onset of symptoms.
