Anamnesis We report the case of a 61-year-old male patient with a history of benign prostatic hyperplasia treated with tamsulosin and ex-smoker for 8 years (smoking habit 35 packs).
As a family history, her mother had tuberculosis in childhood.
She came to the emergency department with dyspnea of 4 days of evolution, which progressively increased until she made minimal efforts, together with a fever peak of 38 oC, with no other associated infectious symptoms or symptoms suggestive of heart failure.
Physical examination revealed an obese patient with acceptable general status and hemodynamically stable.
Speech presented mild tachypnea, with oxygen saturation of 95 % without external contributions.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation revealed hypophonetic tone and a slight decrease in vesicular murmur in a generalized way.
In the neck, there are two adenopathies, one right and the other left, with a diameter of approximately 2 cm.
The rest of the scan is anodyne.
▁Complementary tests Radiotherapy and chest physiotherapy were prescribed nasal gaphae troponin l per minute and various complementary tests were requested (analytical, chest X-ray and chest x-rays, highlighting the elevation of 900 ng/ml normal and aerosol levels of 13.880), with normal levels (mean of 38 pg/ml), and 38, with normal ECG, 38 ng/ml, and 3880 with normal and 38, with normal levels of ECG with normal).
Elevated liver function tests for suspected pulmonary thromboembolism were performed and a computed tomography angiography of the chest ruled out the presence of embolism, but showed a pericardial effusion of 4 cm in maximum thickness and lymphadenopathies of 2 cm in pathological location.
Diagnosis was established with severe pericardial stability.
Treatment Pericardiocentesis.
Once the improvement was stable, even when the patient was hemodynamically stable, admission to the Coronary Unit was decided for diagnostic and therapeutic pericardiocentesis, which was performed urgently with removal of fluid of 2200 cc.
A sample for biochemical, cytological and microbiological study was collected, highlighting the presence of 1.40 mmol/L for biochemical tests (normal values < 400 copies/L) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 1.430.
Clinical improvement and hemodynamic stability of the patient allow transfer to the internal medicine ward waiting for pericardial fluid results.
In the following days, the cytology of the liquid reports adenocarcinoma, as well as the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of tuberculosis in this fluid is reported as positive.
In this situation, in which both findings have a relevant diagnostic, and prognostic, a complementary battery is requested, which would condition the diagnostic-therapeutic process of evidence-based therapeutic involvement.
On the one hand, when adenocarcinoma of the primary tumor is suspected, tests such as computed tomography of the neck and abdomen, endoscopy and immunohistochemistry in pericardial fluid cytology and lymph node biopsy are requested.
These tests are not conclusive for the existence of a primary tumor, although cervical lymph node cytology supports the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma, with▁immunohistochemical study positive for PANCK, CK/620 OCT, GATA 5 and negative for CK HER 207.
These are not very specific, and although they could guide towards a pulmonary, salivary, urothelial and breast origin; other options cannot be ruled out taxatly, so we assume the diagnosis of PUC with perianal involvement.
The suspicion of active tuberculosis, pending further study, is not raised by the moment active oncological treatment.
On the other hand, a series of tests are carried out in order to demonstrate the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in other biological fluids, requesting PCR for tuberculosis and culture of mycobacteria in sputum and urine.
The results are positive for PCR of tuberculosis in urine and pericardial fluid, the rest of the studies being negative.
Therefore, we assumed the diagnosis of tuberculosis with peri-existing affectation and started anti-tuberculosis treatment with rifampicin, pyrazinamide, etambucil and prednisone, with excellent tolerance.
During admission to the Internal Medicine ward, the patient progressed favorably,▁tolerating decubitus and having a fever, decided to speak. Oxygen saturation was 97 %; outpatient treatment was initiated; therefore, home visits were initiated.
After two months of active tuberculosis treatment, the patient was reviewed in the Infectious Diseases Department and started maintenance treatment with rifampicin and isoniazid.
On the other hand, on the contrary, the patient is proposed for inclusion in a clinical trial CUPISCO MX39795, whose objective is to evaluate whether patients with UC benefit from targeted treatment.
