Anamnesis Patient of 54 years smoker of 10 cigarettes a day of cannabis, drinker of more than 3L of beer daily and exconsumer of chronic drug herbaccoin treated patient with hepatitis C.
The patient works in construction and hotelier with good functional situation with EC 1.
It begins a study in December 2014 due to prickling-type chest pain along with associated constitutional syndrome.
A chest X-ray was requested from the health center where a 1 cm nodule was visualized in the middle field of the right lung.
4 features where a CT scan of the chest identifies multiple bilateral pulmonary nodules, lytic metastases in the 6th left costal arch and a right renal mass 4 cm, without a left adrenal mass or peri-thoracic extension.
After commenting on the case in the urological tumor committee, it was decided to perform right nephrectomy via laparoscopic approach, which was performed in March 2015 with results of pathological anatomy of the sinus fat with renal metastasis in clear cells Fuhr grade 3.
He was evaluated in our consultations in April 2015 starting treatment with Sunitinib 50 mgr daily for four weeks with two weeks of rest and Zometa.
Due to worsening of renal function, asthenia and stoma grade 2, treatment was initiated in August 2015 and later resumed in September at a dose of 37.5 mg daily with Denosumab.
Control abdominal wall trauma was performed in September 2015 where stabilization of the disease was observed and treatment was maintained.
In Octubre,▁2015, the patient came to the emergency room for an episode of temporary disorientation with visual and auditory complaints and progressive visual deficit for months in the left eye.
Physical examination revealed hepatomegaly of three fingers in the abdomen without other significant alterations.
Neurologically, there are no signs of seizures along with temporary disorientation and blurred vision with left lateralization without other alterations, with normal and isochoric pupils, without loss of strength or sensitivity.
▁Complementary tests During the emergency room stay, the following complementary tests are performed: - Analytical: in which anemia with Hb of 9 gr/dl stands out together with mild hyponatremia of 134 mEq/L without other significant alterations.
Brain CT: A 20x20 mm lesion in the sellar region with well-defined borders, which extends cranially over the suprasellar cistern, the optimal inferrio-ventricular wall chiasmma and contact.
Two units were transfused into Emergency Departments and admitted to Internal Medicine Department to complete the study.
During admission, the patient worsens clinically and is increasingly disoriented with episodes of psychomotor agitation.
Brain MRI was requested to identify sellar lesions and rule out meningeal carcinomatosis along with abdominal CT scan for restaging.
A complete hormonal profile is also requested.
- Hormonal profile: T axis = 0.54 ng/dl, basal TSH = 0.04 uU/mL, LH <0.07 ng/mL, basal FSH level = 0.07 ng/IU/mL, PR baseline test 27.5.mL
- brain MRI: A hypothalamic pituitary mass with extensive edema in both hypothalamus, internal capsules, and a left hemisphere appears to be a well-distinguished mesophysis, suggesting a complete cerebellar lesion.
Tetraventricular hydrocephalia with transcranial edema.
Leptomeningeal enhancements are not identified, but the possibility of carcinomatosis in leptomeningeal region cannot be ruled out.
CT scan revealed significant bilateral lung metastases progression compared to previous study of bone and adrenal metastases.
Pituitary mass diagnosis of 2.8 cm maximum diameter probably related to pituitary macroadenoma versus metastasis in a patient with clear cell renal carcinoma stage IV.
Central hypothyroidism in the context.
Hyperprogressemia mild in probable relation to compression of the pituitary stalk.
Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
▁Complementary treatment required assessment of the tests by the Radioterápic and Neurosurgery Department.
After evaluation of the case jointly, it was decided to transfer the patient to Neurosurgery Department for surgical intervention due to the absence of comorbidities, age, and good functional status prior to admission.
She was assessed by an endocrinology service, with treatment adjusted by initiation of treatment with 100 mcgr of methotrexate every 24 hours, recommending stress coverage for surgery with dexamethasone or acetaminophen.
Surgery was performed unsuccessfully on 11/13/2015 by neuronavigation-guided craniotomy.
She presented intraoperative complication with hemorrhagic shock with hypotension and acute anemia with Hb 3.2 requiring transfusion of 4 units of consciousness and volume without identifying clear bleeding point.
After stabilization, the patient goes to recovery beds.
The onset of seizures in the days following surgery presents progressive anaemia with neurological symptoms not present before surgery with left reactive mydriasis.
A brain CT scan was performed after surgery, which showed changes secondary to surgery without signs of bleeding or other significant changes.
The pathological anatomy results of the surgical specimen showed cerebral metastasis of clear cell renal carcinoma.
After several days of resuscitation, the patient progressively worsens, worsening neurologically and also respiratoryly. The patient is hypoxemic and has very poor respiratory mechanics. This is secondary to significant pulmonary metastases and severe calcium hypocalcemia 2.
At this time, it is considered that given the current situation of the patient and his disease, it is not subsidiary to aggressive support measures, limiting the therapeutic effort according to the family and the living will of the patient.
