Anamnesis A 70-year-old woman was referred to the Internal Medicine Unit of the Breast Surgery Unit after performing a biopsy of an ulcerated lesion in the left breast.
In the first consultation on Medical Path (July-2016) the patient refers personal history of hypertension for 20 years ago. She refers to hypertension for 20 years 100 mg on the right side and multiple interventions on the right side.
She also denies toxic habits and drug allergies.
It is independent for basic activities of daily living.
In April-2016 he noticed an ulcerated tumor in the left breast.
When the patient presented an increase in size, she decided to go to the emergency room in June-2016 and was referred to the Breast Surgery Unit.
Physical examination revealed a good general condition with CS 1 (limitation to physical exertion), weight: 60 kg, height: 141 cm and skin dryness.
Cardiac auscultation revealed a grade II/VI systolic murmur with predominance of aortic focus.
No lymph node enlargement was observed in the examination of the lymph nodes.
Lung auscultation did not show pathological findings and, at the abdominal level, there was no evidence of visceromegaly.
On the other hand, the right breast does not present alterations, but in the left breast an erythematous tumor of approximately 13 cm in maximum diameter, with irregular edges, with ulcerated and necrotic tissue in the lower quadrant is observed.
▁Complementary tests » Left breast punch biopsy (junio-2016): diffuse large cell non-Hodgkin B lymphoma.
Left breast cancer cells positive for CD 20 negative for epithelial markers and T-line. » Chest and abdominal PET-CT (July-2016): hypermetabolic lesion with high rate of cell proliferation (SUmax)
Left axillary lymph node with low proliferation rate (SUVmax 1.5), low probability of malignancy.
» Echocardiogram (July-2016): degenerative aortic and mitral pathology without hemodynamically significant valvular lesion.
Good systolic function.
Left ventricular ejection fraction of 56 % (lower limit of normal: 55
» Negative serology for hepatitis B, hepatitis C, syphilis and HIV.
» Blood count: hemoglobin 9 mg/dl, leukocytes 11,460 mg/dl, neutrophils: 6,710 mg/dl, platelets 162,000 mg/dl.
» Biochemistry: creatinine 1.25 mg/dl, LDH 623 U/l.
» Tumor marker: beta-2 microglobulin 7.7 mg/l (range:▁0.10-3.00).
Diagnosis Primary breast lymphoma.
Treatment In July-2016, first-line treatment was initiated for diffuse large B non-Hodgkin lymphoma of the left primary breast stage I with a chemotherapy regimen of prednisone R-CHOP iv (rituximab 560 mg, cyclophosphamide scrubic 1,100).
After the first cycle, there was a significant improvement in inflammation of the left breast, however, the patient presented asthenia g1 according to the common criteria of thermoinology for adverse events version 4.0 (CTCAE-v 4.0).
After the second cycle, the patient persisted with asthenia g1 and hypoxia g1, alopecia g2 and mucositis g1 were added.
Likewise, the breast lesion continued to improve progressively, being limited at that moment to the inferior internal quadrant.
When the patient came to the Medical Innocence consultation to assess the beginning of the fourth cycle of chemotherapy, the patient had a poor general condition associated with disorientation and dysarthria, so a CT scan of the left skull showed evidence of infarction
The fourth cycle of chemotherapy was suspended and she was admitted to the Stroke Unit.
Medical▁Outcomes at the Emergency Department.
Doppler ultrasound of the supraaortic trunks showed no significant findings and was discharged with the diagnosis of acute ischemic stroke in the territory of the left middle cerebral artery of cardioembolic origin and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
Trazodone 100 mg or c/24 hours at night and enoxaparin 60 mg c/12 hours were added to their usual medication.
The patient had a progressive but slow clinical improvement, which prevented her from attending the outpatient clinic for Chemotherapy.
Follow-up PET-CT was performed in October-2016, which showed a significant decrease in size and degree of uptake of the left breast lesion, persisting a pathological increase in tracer uptake x quadrant of approximately 28cm x SUmax.
It was considered as a partial metabolic response.
She was referred to the Radioterápic Centre and, once her general condition improved, adjuvant radiotherapy was started.
From December 13 to January 11 of 2017, 40 Gy was administered on the left breast and residual lesion plus margin and 32 Gy on axillary lymph node areas (levels I-II-III with photoclavicular notching at week 15 Gy and fossa with
Finally, in February-2017, the patient returns to the outpatient clinic with asymptomatic Ontario physician, with good general condition, without sequelae of cerebral infarction and with left mammary lesion of very good appearance completely scarring.
