Anamnesis Family history: maternal uncle deceased from prostate cancer over 70 years old and another from pharyngeal neoplasm.
I'm terrified with death from lung cancer.
Personal history: no known drug allergies.
He had been an ex-smoker for 20 years (20 pack-years).
Diabetes mellitus type II since 2004, insulin dependent for 3 years.
Hypercholesterolaemia.
Worker of a cellar.
She denied toxic consumption.
Current treatment: simvastatin 20 mg, leucopenia 20 mg, hypersensitivity, hypersensitivity, hypersensitivity to telithromycin 10 mg before meals.
Her oncological history started on December 3, 16, when the patient came to the emergency department with fever of up to 38.5oC, severe loss of taste in the last month, dysphagia to solids and gastric fluids, asthenia, and abdominal pain.
Urgent abdominal ultrasound and contrast-enhanced CT scan showed a 17.2 x 7.7 x 7.5 cm mid-abdominal tumor, with an important hydro-aerial component, marked and irregular thickening of the small intestine, probably in contact with small intestine.
It was decided to perform an urgent exploratory laparotomy due to suspicion of intestinal perforation, which aims to cloaca abdominal center, performing tumor resection with several intestinal loops, and mechanical laterolateral anastomosis.
Surgery was suboptimal because of involved borders.
The anatomopathological report showed findings compatible with fibromatosis month of desmoid type, with▁immunohistochemical study positive for smooth muscle actin and beta-catenin; and negative for desmin, CD117(D134).
Assessed for the first time in consultations on Nosocomaches (16/01/2017), close follow-up was decided, with radiological control in 4 months, as well as familial adenoma as familial▁polyposis (AP known association of desmoid tumors and▁polyposisF)
One month after the intervention, the patient came to the emergency room for pain in the right renal fossa radiating. An abdominal CT scan showed moderate right hydronephrosis and multiple peritoneal implants, compatible with tumor recurrence.
Urology and Surgery performed a new surgical intervention, and the patient was admitted to the emergency room for completion of the study.▁Right percutaneous nephrostomy was performed without complications.
Before discharge, the patient was managed conservatively.
Clinical-pathological discordance (tumour necrosis, peritoneal implants, clinical course, etc.)
a new histological review was requested in a reference center for soft tissue tumors, giving a diagnosis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, germ-cell immunophenotype with positive immunoexpression for BCL-6 and CD10 negative for MUM.
Therefore, the patient continued to be managed by the Hematology Department.
After fever with ataxia, sensory disturbances and emetic syndrome, brain MRI was performed, which ruled out involvement at this level.
Lumbar puncture was performed, detecting Cryptococcus antigen (+); liposomal amphotericin and fludrosome was initiated (treatment onset date: 17/03/17).
At 48 hours, serology for HIV (+) was reported with viremia of 684,000c/ml and LCD4 count in 38/ul.
The patient had a favorable evolution, being the control culture (-) and after completing the cycle, it was de-escalated to oral fluconazole.
After four weeks of antifungal treatment, antiretroviral treatment with raltegravir + FTC + TDF was started with good tolerance.
A PET study was completed, which reported extensive involvement in the abdominal and pulmonary areas, bone biopsy (without isolation), and echocardiogram with preserved ejection fraction.
In a stable situation, R-CHOP cycle was initiated with good tolerance and response.
Establishment plan
Dry mouth without aphtha.
Cachexia marking.
Abdominally, there was a notable swelling in the right hemiabdomen, as well as doubtful in the left flank, with pain at palpation of the epigastrium and right hypochondrium.
The rest, anoddy.
▁Complementary tests » CT with I.V contrast.
Metastases (13/2017): progression of the disease with multiple intraperitoneal masses compatible with primary implants.
One of them refers to the right ureter and another to a loop of delegation in the left iliac fossa.
» LCR (17/03/17): 30 leukocytes (10 % PMN, 30 % MN), ¶s, 97 glucose, 125 proteins, 22,3 ADA.
Abundant lymphocytes.
IF: only 4 % monoclonal B lymphocytes, rest T lymphocytes. Cryptococcus antigen was detected.
» Serologies (20/03/17): HIV (+), HBV and (-), CMV IgG, EBV(EBV), VHS IgG(+), HCV-(+), toxoplasma IgG.
B2-microglobulin (21/04/17): 4,52, LDH: 473.
» PET (24/04/17): reports of extensive supra- and infra-diaphragmatic involvement with predominance of large masses at abdominal level, as well as pulmonary and no findings in the rest.
Diagnosis » Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (GBSCL) of the centrogerminal type.
» HIV infection category C3 (AIDS).
cryptococcal meningitis.
Treatment After presenting the case in a multidisciplinary session, it was decided to start treatment with liposomal amphotericin and fludroisoone, switching to oral fluconazole.
After 4 weeks, antiretroviral treatment was started with raltegravir + FTC + TDF and, finally, systemic chemotherapy was initiated according to R-CHOP scheme.
Patient remains stable with the previously described antecedents, currently being followed up by the Hematology Unit in External Consultations.
Good response and tolerance after the third cycle of R-CHOP.
