Anamnesis A 52-year-old man, with no known drug allergies, computerized.
Ex-smoker (IPA: 30).
Personal history: bilateral tinnitus.
No regular medication.
Family history: mother diagnosed with colon neoplasia and glioblastoma multiforme.
▁Oncological history In February 2019, due to cough and a feeling of cervical oppression, a chest CT was performed showing a large anterior polylobulated mediastinal mass of about 12 x 14 x 15 cm, which had extensive contact with the ascending aorta.
PET-CT confirmed these findings and showed metabolic activity of the lesion (SUV 8.3), with no evidence of lymphadenopathy or visceral involvement at another level.
Biopsy was performed with a report of pathological epithelial cell anatomy CKAE1/3,▁keratin, p63 and PAX8 positive with a CD45▁lymphoid component and TdT positive and synaptophysin negative.
Diagnosis of thymic carcinoma with extensive contact with large vessels is presented in the multidisciplinary tumor committee and treatment with induction chemotherapy is decided.
On March 11, 19 patients started conservative treatment with platinum-etoposide grade 2 cycles (last received on April 3, 2019), with regular tolerance. The secondary effects were nausea grade 2 and thrombopenia and thrombopenia.
The patient was admitted to the emergency room on April 18, 2015 due to pain in the left twin for 5 days and fever with a 1-hour history of tiritons, with no other accompanying symptoms.
Physical status Hemodynamically stable.
To 37.7oC, O2 saturation breathing room air of 98 %.
Article 1
Aware and oriented in three Glasgow 15.
Higher preserved functions, isochoric and normoreactive pupils, without alteration of cranial nerves and with osteotendinous reflexes, symmetrical and conserved strength and sensitivity.
Cardiopulmonary arrest normal and abdomen without mass or visceromegaly or signs of peritonitis.
Lower extremities without edema, especially in IBD erythema at the twin level with venous cord compression, without temperature increase and negative Homans sign.
▁Complementary tests » Blood analysis: leukocytes 1,600, neutrophils 310, hemoglobin 8,8, platelets 14,000, D 576, CRP 224,4, procalcitonin 0,17.
Biochemistry and coagulation test results were normal.
» Lower limb venous Doppler ultrasound: no signs of superficial or deep venous thrombosis were observed in RIE or IBD.
» Urocultive: pansensitive Escherichia coli.
"Hematuria: negative.
Diagnosis » Masaoka's stage III thymic carcinoma.
feverish.
» Left twin pain without filiation.
Antibiotic therapy consisting of empirical antibiotic therapy with piperacillin-tazo; antibiotic therapy with antibiotics is indicated; and admission to the emergency department is decided.
As for pain in IBD, deep venous thrombosis is ruled out and intravenous analgesia with paracetamol and dexketoprofen is established.
Twin pain disappeared in the left twin at 48 h after the scheduled analgesia.
During admission pancites recovered but persisted with feverish peaks, thus extending the antibiotic spectrum.
On the 7th day of admission, the patient suffered a respiratory arrest due to hypercapnic respiratory failure, so he was intubated and then admitted to the Intensive Care Unit.
Extubation was attempted twice, requiring reintubation due to respiratory acidosis and decreased level of consciousness (Glasgow 3).
Dysautonomy was also observed, with hypersupdoration and hemodynamic instability with rapid atrial fibrillation.
Subsequently, motor limitation of proximal predominance and upper limbs was observed.
Once neuromuscular disease is suspected, the following complementary tests are performed: » Lumbar puncture: no pleocytosis or albumin-cytological diversion.
» EMG: signs of denervation bulbofacial, cervical proximal and lumbar muscles with peripheral involvement of cranial nerves (absence of R1 in the reflex blink), absence of motor nerve responses with reduced amplitude appears bilateral.
» Autoimmunity: anti-acetylcholine receptor antibodies (titer of 2.64 nmol/l) and anti-thytin antibodies positive.
The rest of antineuronal antibodies, anti-MAG, anti-MUSH, anti-MAG, antinuclear, anti-Ro, ancient▁ganglia and anti-potassium channels were negative.
» Contractive chest CT scan was performed to rule out progression and/or complications, visualizing an anterior mediastinal mass of about 8 cm in diameter, with wide contact with the superior vena cava and the ascending aorta without signs of rejection.
With these results, we suggest the case as a myasthenia gravis for malignancy in a patient with thymic carcinoma.
The Tensilon test (drophonium test) cannot be performed due to the patient's dysautonomia.
On April 30, 2016, immunoglobulin treatment was started and, in the absence of response, after five days, methylprednisolone bolus was started.
Pyridoxine was then added, but despite all this, the patient progressed unfavourably, with no evidence of improvement. The family finally agreed to withdraw from mechanical ventilation and start of chemotherapy 20 May 19 after the episode.
