Anamnesis Female patient, 52 years old, with a history of obesity and, as obstetric history, three pregnancies, one of them spontaneous abortion.
No family history of interest.
As usual, you take only oral contraceptives.
You have not experienced any known allergic drug reactions.
It begins in August 2018 with dyspnea on moderate exertion that gradually worsens until, in October 2018, she comes to the emergency department, where CT angiography is performed to rule out lung thromboembolism, in which a suggestive glass-like mass is detected.
A CT scan of the abdomen was performed in October 2018. The CT scan revealed a pulmonary spiculated nodules suggestive of lymph node metastasis, and the CT scan also detected images suggestive of lymph node metastasis.
Mammography and ultrasound of the breast and axilla were performed, and three lesions were detected as BIRADS5, two of them in the right breast and one of them in the left breast, as well as bilateral nonspecific axillary nodes.
In the biopsy, all lesions present histology of ductal carcinoma grade 2, with highly positive hormone receptors, HER-2 negative and Ki67 5 %.
With the diagnosis of bilateral luminal ductal carcinoma A stage IV due to bilateral, bone and pulmonary disease, it was decided to start first-line systemic treatment with weekly paclitaxel, which began on November 2018.
On November 21, 2018, he came back to the emergency department with dyspnea at rest that has worsened in recent days, not associated with cough or expectoration, chest pain, fever or dysthermic sensation in the anamnesis systems.
Physical examination revealed basal oxygen saturation of 89 %, with hemodynamic stability.
Pulmonary auscultation revealed bilateral hypoventilation and isolated wheezing, with no other significant findings.
▁Complementary tests Analytically, it shows leukocytosis with 12,100 leukocytes with predominance of neutrophils, without elevation of acute phase reactants, as well as partial respiratory failure with partial oxygen pressure of 58 mm Hg, without other associated alterations.
The decision was made to continue the study, performing a chest CT in which new onset pericardial effusion was observed, as well as an increase in small pleural effusion of irregular morphology, which does not allow ruling out the presence of pleural implants.
Additionally, it presents ground-glass opacities and bilateral opacities, atelectasis of the middle lobe and dementia.
A transthoracic echocardiogram showed mild pericardial effusion that did not justify respiratory failure, with normal ejection fraction.
Given the persistence of symptoms, it was decided to continue the study with fibrobronchoscopy, in which we observed hypervascularized whitish lesions in the right upper bronchus and intermediate bronchus, which were biopsied, also taking alveolar cytology.
Samples are sent to Microbiology, resulting in cultures of aerobes, mycobacteria and negatives for Aspergillus and cytomegalo.
Pathological Anatomy confirmed bronchial adenocarcinoma positive for estrogen receptors and HER-2 negative.
▁Cytology also detects cells suggestive of malignancy.
Diagnosis The bronchial mucosa biopsy confirms the diagnosis of endobronchial metastasis of breast origin, which justifies the clinical presentation of the patient.
Treatment It was decided to continue with the systemic treatment regimen, administering the second dose of the first cycle of paclitaxel, and adjusting symptomatic treatment with oral morphine and corticotherapy, pautting home therapy, and the patient may be discharged
Treatment should be initiated every month on the first day of therapy with paclitaxel in patients who develop an allergic reaction which, in addition to a progressive worsening of their respiratory condition, required two admissions for acute episodes of bronchospasm with respiratory failure
The patient presented progressive improvement of the condition, and could be withdrawn with conservative treatment, with radiological improvement in the CT scan of February 2019. Therefore, the decision was made to pass to the current letrozole associated with dyspneaciclib, a treatment that continues at the moment
