Anamnesis A 61-year-old woman with a history of hiatal hernia, tuberculosis in childhood and hepatitis B virus correctly treated.
Gynecologic history included surgical intervention of right adnexectomy for mature cystic teratoma in 2001.
In 2006, he underwent surgery in another hospital for mental retardationectomy, visualizing mucus in the abdominal cavity.
Pathological examination revealed mucinous cystadenoma of the appendix with surgical resection margins free of lesion.
In January 2013, the patient attended outpatient clinics for mild metrorrhagia postmenopause, as well as abdominal discomfort with postprandial abdominal disfunction.
Do not nausea or vomiting.
No changes in bowel habits.
No other symptoms.
Physical examination revealed vital signs within normal limits.
Acceptable general condition, normohydrated and normoperfused.
Eupneic.
ACP: anodina.
Abdomen: extended, discomfort to the deep fixation in the hypogastrium and the right iliac fossa.
No masses or visceromegaly were found.
Hydroaerial noises present
Blumberg negative.
Murphy negative.
MMII: oedema perimalle
Vaginal tract: long posterior cervix, no pain at cervical mobilization or at the bottom of Douglas sac.
Uterus size and consistency impressive of normal.
No adnexal masses.
▁Complementary tests Given the patient's age and clinical history, complementary tests are requested before the anodyne examination to rule out gynecological pathology: » Blood analysis: Hb 10.2 g/dl, other parameters within the normal range.
» Tumor markers: CEA 9.5; CA 19.9: 120.4; HE4 54.4.
Ca 125 112,4.
» A transvaginal ultrasound is performed, visualizing free fluid in the pelvis and a hyperechogenic image of 37 mm in the left adnexal area.
Left ventricular septal defect. CT scan revealed a mass consistent with peritoneal carcinomatosis, large omentum infiltrated by multiple masses and peritoneal lymphadenopathy.
» After the CT report with peritoneal carcinomatosis with alteration of the left adnexa, the first possibility is ovarian adenocarcinoma.
Diagnosis With previously described findings, a diagnostic laparotomy with intraoperative biopsy was performed in February 2013.
Pathological examination revealed peritoneal implants, ridge, left ovary and intestinal meso due to mucinous adenocarcinoma.
Immunohistochemical studies were performed, showing strong positivity for CK20 and negative for CK7, leading to a primary intestinal origin; there are no mutations in KRAS and NRAS.
With these data, we establish the diagnosis of peritoneal carcinomatosis due to pseudomyxoma peritonei and present the case of malignancy committee referral to a referral hospital for intraperitoneal hyperthermia.
Treatment A laparotomy was performed on May 15, 2013, finding peritoneal carcinomatosis due to a very advanced peritoneal pseudomyxoma, with a carcinomatosis rate greater than 30, disseminated disease in the small intestine, due to the fact that it was treated.
cisplatin resections of both omentums, cholecystectomy and nodules larger than 5 cm were performed, and intra-peritoneal chemotherapy was administered intraoperative hyperthermia with good evolution of mitomycin at a dose of 10 mg/m2 in infusion 90 minutes.
The evolution of the disease in relation to the first CT post-surgery (July 2013) was observed, with respect to the study conducted in February, with a poor response to chemotherapy.
From a clinical point of view, the patient was asymptomatic, so that several options were considered: 2 administer FOLFOX 6 with start of chemotherapy on 08/13/2013, of which she received 13 cycles, from cycle 7 without neurooxyplatin
At the control CT after 10 cycles, minimal pelvic progression was observed, but according to the patient, it was decided to continue the treatment.
The last cycle was September 2, 2014, with a CT scan at that stable time of size in relation to the previous study.
In March▁2015, a CT scan showed progression of mild/moderate disease compared to the previous study.
A second-line chemotherapy with XELIRI is suggested at this time, with dose reduction due to previous toxicity.
Start on April 14, 2015.
