Anamnesis: A 64-year-old woman with no history of interest or comorbidities diagnosed in November 2015 with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma (cT1a N3 M1).
It has extensive rib and axillary involvement with negative molecular study (EGFR non-mutated, ALK and ROS-1 non-translocated, PD-L1 5%) that received treatment with cisplatin-pemetrexed April 2016.
After 6 cycles, maintenance with pemetrexed monotherapy was started with good tolerance.
In July 2016, the rib injury progressed, so local radiotherapy was performed and the patient was referred to the clinical trial unit of the Hospital Fundación Jiménez Díaz.
The patient is proposed to participate in a clinical trial with a PD-L1 inhibitor in combination with an anti-VEGFR-2 drug.
The criteria were met and treatment started in August 2016.
Partial response was observed from the first CT in October 2016, which maintained until February 2018.
As toxicity to treatment, the patient developed a grade I skin rash and grade II adrenal insufficiency (thromboses related to medication) requiring subtitutive treatment with hydroalteone 20 mg daily.
On February 2, 2018, in a sustained partial response, he came to the emergency department due to emetic and diarrheic symptoms of non-pathological stools lasting 3 days.
The patient also suffered from abdominal pain, severe headache, asthenia and functional impairment.
Upon arrival, a fever peak of 38.5 oC was observed. Physical examination revealed sweating in a situation of hemodynamically hypotensive (87/55), all of which was justified as an adrenal crisis due to increased corticosteroid stress.
Nevertheless, the patient was in good general condition and no alterations were observed in the neurological examination.
Blood cultures were taken, coprocultive and a chest X-ray was performed without abnormalities.
Nasal lavage was performed, which was positive for influenza AH3 virus.
The patient is admitted to the Medical Ongoing Care Service, starting treatment with high doses of oseltamivir and hydrolysis with stabilization of tension and initial clinical improvement, remaining 48 hours after admission.
On February 8, progressive elevation of blood pressure was observed and maintained for 24 hours (without known previous arterial hypertension), and that same night he presented an episode of hypertension with figures of 210/110 with bilateral occipital headache.
The patient initially reported a bilateral progressive amaurosis and an hour later.
Conscious physical condition, bradycardia, but without compression or emission of language, with bilateral abolished threat reflex, visual dextroversion, and cervical gyrus
Bilateral amaurosis is evidenced.
Eye movement preserved in the verbal order, with no focal signs on the exploration of cranial nerves.
Force and tenderness in all four limbs preserved
No dysmetria or dysdiadochokinesia.
It is not explored, but without meningeal signs.
▁Complementary tests An analytical is performed to rule out metabolic disorders, simultaneously an urgent CT of the skull is requested and an assessment by the Neurology Department; nevertheless, she suddenly presents a tonic-clonic seizures generalized diazepam 5 mg intravenous route.
On CT scans, bilateral parietooccipital hypodense lesions are evident, with subcortical parietal involvement and corticosubcortical occipital lesions.
The findings are confirmed by a brain MRI, verifying that these lesions present hypointense behavior in T1 sequences and hyperintense in T2 and FLAIR sequences, without clear restriction of diffusion and without enhancement
The findings are consistent with the previous suspicion of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome or PRES and their distribution and signal behavior are not suggestive of acute ischemic lesions.
No foci of hemorrhage were found, nor signs of secondary involvement were identified.
Diagnosis Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome in a patient with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma treated with anti-PD-L1 combined with antiangiogenic.
Treatment of suspected posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome was decided to optimize blood pressure control with the introduction of intravenous urapidil and treatment with levetiracetam was initiated.
The patient was admitted to the stroke unit for hemodynamic surveillance on February 9.
Corticosteroid doses administered from admission are also reduced.
Venous sinus arrest achieved good blood pressure control, so urapidil was discontinued.
Progressively, the patient recovers bilateral vision with improvement in visual acuity until normalization two weeks after the beginning of PRES.
The patient returned to the on site where antihypertensive drugs were progressively required to achieve adequate blood pressure control, and four drugs were required (enalacryl, amylosin, labetalol and doxaz).
After adjustment of the rest of the medication and appropriate hygienic-dietetic measures, she was kept on enalapril treatment only with very good control, being possible to discharge the patient on February 23, neurologically asymptomatic.
A follow-up MRI was performed before discharge, with improvement in previously described brain lesions, and a non-pelvic CT scan revealed disease progression.
