A 62-year-old patient consulted because, after the appearance of a nasal tip foruncle 4 days before, initially treated with topical mupirocin, he began with progressive redness and pain of the nasal tip.
Two days before admission, due to worsening of the clinical picture and the onset of fever (38o), she was treated with oral cloxacillin, at a dose of 500 mg/6 hours.
The patient came to the emergency department for not improving.
Among its antecedents, only high frequency sensorineural hearing loss secondary to the A1555G mutation of the MTRNR1 gene stands out.
Clinical examination revealed edema and erythema of the tip and intense pain on nasal palpation.
In the upper inner part of the nasal vestibule, a furuncle was observed.
The rest of the ENT examination was normal.
Body temperature was 38.1o.
Computed tomography (CT) with contrast was performed and reported as a 1.2 cm nasal tip abscess of larger diameter.
On admission, the patient had a CRP of 6.5mg/dl and a SGV of 52 mm, without leukocytosis or other relevant laboratory abnormalities.
HIV screening was negative.
It was decided to drain the abscess in consultation.
After the administration of a local anesthetic (10% lidocaine 2%), a puncture was performed to obtain a sample for culture, with subsequent drainage of approximately 1 cc of pus, debridement and washing with a cleansing swab.
▁Evaluated by the Infectious Diseases Unit it was decided to start treatment with cloxacillin at doses of 2g/6 hours/endovenous, metronidazole 500/6h/endovenous and oral ciprofloxacin 750 mg/12 hours.
Staphylococcus aureus was isolated in the abscess▁exudate culture, so treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanate was adjusted at a dose of 1gr /8h ev.
After a good evolution, drainage was removed 48 hours later and the patient was discharged 5 days later with oral amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875 mg/8h, with a CRP of 1.2 mg/dl.
One month after the antibiotic treatment was completed, the patient was asymptomatic, with no aesthetic or functional sequelae and complete normalization of the analytical inflammatory parameters (CRP 0.2 mg/dl and ESR 2mm).
).
