Anamnesis The patient came to the emergency room in August 2018 for persistent fever.
The relevant symptoms were pharyngeal pruritus, without odynophagia, with increased baseline dyspnea on exertion.
Denies cough or expectoration.
Feeling sick, without vomiting or diarrhoea, similar to what you had experienced since the start of treatment.
She has no urinary symptoms.
No other symptoms were found by devices and systems.
Physical emergency room. The patient had stable constants except for significant desaturation: 73 % of basal oxygen (no home oxygen); the rest had constant oxygen saturation, and the rest had constant oxygen saturation.
Upon examination of the oral cavity, whitish, thickish plaques were observed on the lingual mucosa, which were not adhered to, without objectifying to the pharyngeal or pharyngeal region.
The rest of the physical examination, including pulmonary auscultation, was anodyne.
Blood tests were ordered with basal arterial gas.
An increase of acute phase reactants was observed, with C-reactive protein of 202.5 mg/l, without other relevant alterations.
Lactate gas showed acute partial respiratory failure with lactate in normal gases (pH: 7.48, pCO2: 35 mm Hg, pO2: 35 mm Hg, HCO3: 25.3 mM/l).
A chest X-ray showed bilateral interstitial pattern.
CTA of the pulmonary arteries was requested, given the increased thromboembolic risk in cancer patients, despite being anticoagulated at therapeutic doses.
Pulmonary thromboembolism was ruled out, but extensive interstitial lung opacities were observed, with thickening of the interlobular septa and of the peribronchovascular interstitium with diffuse ground-glass opacities.
In the case of our patient, given the clinical context and history, the images were compatible with drug-induced pulmonary toxicity.
She was admitted to the Medical Doctor's office.
Serology was negative, highlighting cytomegalovirus, aspergillus fumigatus, Legionella, acute Q fever, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, etc.
Diagnostic fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy was requested with bronchoalveolar lavage and alveolar bronchoaspirate, whose cultures were also negative.
Flow cytometry of the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was performed with finding of lymphocytosis (28% [normal range: 1%-10 %], and inversion of CD4/CD8 ratio (CD4/CD8 ratio: 1.74 macrophages: 3.5%]) with normal range: 1.57 %.
Although the increase in lymphocytes is usually even greater than that recorded, these results are compatible with drug-induced hypersensitivity pneumonitis/alveolitis.
Diagnosis Hypersensitivity pneumonitis and/or alveolitis induced by gemcitabine and/or nab-paclitaxel together with acute partial respiratory failure secondary to the previous one.
Treatment Interruption of compatible cytologic medicaments (gemcitabine-paclitaxel), empirical antibiotic therapy (in this case imipenoxtrivofloxacin in combination with prednisone, aviazole in 40 mg/day)
The patient was admitted to the emergency room with empirical antibiotic treatment with imipenem, cotrimoxazole and acetazolamide/trimethoprim, and continued diagnostic study.
During the hospitalization, microbiological and negative results were received, as well as the result of flow cytometry that confirmed the diagnosis of hypersensitivity pneumonitis/drug-induced alveolitis with oral prednisone 40 mg scale.
She presented significant clinical and radiological improvement, so she was discharged with progressive reduction of corticoid therapy, as well as oral levofloxacin therapy to comply with the antibiotic cycle.
That same month of August, in addition to the pneumonitis presented, a clear hepatic progression was observed, starting second line with FOLFOX.
In February 2019 new liver progression was observed, which was initiated in March 2019 third line with 5-fluorouracil with pegylated liposomal irinotecan, having received two cycles to date.
Due to the clinical worsening, it has been decided to interrupt the active oncological treatment and the patient is being followed up by the home care support team.
