Anamnesis This is a 33-year-old married man with two children, a professional engineer.
She had a family history of a maternal uncle with pancreatic cancer and a maternal aunt with ovarian cancer.
As a personal history, overweight up to one year before the first visit to Ontario smoking, a sporadic intervenor, social drinker, was being treated with eprosartán 600 mg/day for arterial hypertension and varicose vein
In January 2006, the patient started on a hypocaloric diet, with loss of consciousness up to 18 kg, even after leaving the diet.
With months associated pain belt with visual analog scale (VAS) 5/10, diarrhea and food intolerance without steatorrhea.
In October 2006, the patient consulted due to loss of consciousness and laboratory tests, which revealed anemia, abnormal liver tests and hypercalcemia.
Physical examination revealed that the patient was in a good general condition, had a positive skin color, did not develop adenopathy, and the abdomen was tender.
A dubious mass lay in the epigastrium.
▁Complementary tests Studies were expanded, including abdominal ultrasound and computed tomography (CT) showing multiple liver lesions and a large pancreatic lesion.
Median magnetic resonance imaging confirmed that liver lesions were metastases and the presence of a large pancreatic mass (> 9 cm) and portal hypertension was detected.
A CT-guided puncture of the pancreatic mass with pathological diagnosis of malignancy and suggestive of adenocarcinoma was performed, although the isolated cells were insufficient to perform▁immunohistochemical studies.
Diagnosis Although initially the diagnosis of probable pancreatic adenocarcinoma was made, later, as we will see after rebiopsy of the tumor, it was confirmed that it was a neuroendocrine tumor of the pancreas (NEPT).
Treatment With histological confirmation of pancreatic cancer, it was decided, after consultation with the patient and informed consent in writing, to initiate 1 line with gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2/week January x 3 every 4 weeks 2007.
At three months, CT confirmed the progression of the primary cancer, so it was initiated in April 2007, second line with capecitabine 1000 mg/m2/12 h x 14 days and erdia oral viatinib 150 mg.
Again, at 3 months, in July 2007, the new CT confirmed the progression of the primary tumor, so a third line of chemotherapy was initiated with capecitabine 1000 mg/m2/12 hla xtin 130 days + oxa.
The patient completed 26 cycles in October 2009 without clinical or radiological progression, maintaining a good general condition without toxicity (no neuropathy) and with clinical response, improvement in hepatic pain and normalization of calcium, biochemical response.
The patient was admitted in December 2009 due to stabilization of pancreatic cancer for more than two years, which is unlikely to be a third-line tumor. The digestive service was requested to perform a pancreatic biopsy to rule out another histology.
The access for biopsy was due to the large pancreatic mass, portal hypertension and the risk of bleeding, so an exploratory laparoscopy was performed.
We obtained a pancreatic tissue sample with histological confirmation of a well-differentiated pNET with Ki 67 of 1 %, Octreoscan® with great avidity by the radiotracer (Krengranning grade 3 elevation of serum).
In May 2010, seven months after stopping chemotherapy, CT confirmed a stable disease, so treatment with somatostatin analogue, lanreotide autogel 120 mg every 4 weeks subcutaneous was stopped.
After two and a half years of treatment, in November 2012, a radiological progression was observed in the liver and pancreas.
The patient remained in good general condition and progressed orally 37.5 which was decided to include him in the SAL-SUN-2011-01 trial of the Spanish Neuroendocrine Tumor Group (GETNE) December 2012 with sunitin.
Toxicity included neutropenia and thrombopenia grade I, skin and hair discoloration and hypertension grade I2, 3.
In November 2014, the patient received topical corticosteroids 10 mg/day, and toxicity included hyperglycemia, anemia, neutropenia and asthenia grade 12.
Treatment was initiated on August 9, 2016, after a new radiological and clinical progression was observed.
At that time, the patient presents with CD-1, loss of 6 kg in less than three months, alteration in liver tests and recurrence of hypercalcemia present at diagnosis.
Due to the suspicion of increased tumor▁aggressiveness, it was decided to rescue the third line of chemotherapy that was suspended without progression by capecitabine and oxaliplatin.
The treatment is prescribed with a 20 % dose reduction starting in September 2016, having to slowly deteriorate general, bedding, worsening of renal function days entered by steroid and hypercalcemia.
After stabilizing the patient, it was decided to follow up the Palliative Care Unit at home, dying in November 2016 10 years after the diagnosis.
