Anamnesis A 47-year-old man with no relevant past medical history was referred to our Primary Care physician due to the appearance of a skin lesion in the left flank.
Located that it appeared approximately 1 month ago and increased in size, being pruriginous.
He does not mention any other accompanying symptoms.
Physical examination revealed a subcutaneous nodule measuring about 3 cm in diameter, erythematous, non-painful, attached to deep planes and located on the left flank.
The rest of the physical examination is anodyne.
▁Complementary tests It was decided to perform an excision of the subcutaneous nodule, the pathological result being compatible with clear cell carcinoma.
In addition, we requested a renal vein located in the posterior eveal focal segment. The renal vein showed a heterogeneous left renal mass, with a necrotic zone, with maximum axes of 98 x 80 mm, which arises from the broad face.
There is also a density of blade tissues 27 mm long axis that strongly enhances, located between the external oblique muscle and the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the left flank related to the subcutaneous nodule of the kidney.
In turn, there are bilateral diffusely distributed pulmonary nodules compatible with metastasis, as well as bilateral hiliar lymph nodes, larger than 19 mm.
The rest of the study did not show other findings.
Blood analysis was normal, including renal function and blood count.
Similarly, no pathological findings were observed on cranial CT.
Diagnosis With these results, the patient underwent a left radical nephrectomy laparoscopically and excision of subcutaneous metastasis.
The pathology report confirmed the presence of a clear cell renal carcinoma (Fuhrman grade 1) of 9 cm (pT3a pN0 pM1).
We are therefore faced with a 47-year-old man, with no relevant pathological history, with metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma with pulmonary and cutaneous involvement.
Treatment After presenting the case in the Urological Tumors Committee, it was decided to initiate a first-line anti-TKI-VEGF treatment with sunitinib 50 mg/24 h with a 4-week rest regimen.
Post-treatment evolution was 3 months, with partial response.
The toxicities include hand-foot syndrome, diarrhea, dysgenesis and asthenia in relation to sarcopenia, all of them grade 1, which do not limit their daily activities of daily living.
After 5 months of treatment, partial response was maintained but toxicity began to be more intense, so it was decided to modify the treatment regimen to sunitinib 50 mg/24 h for 2 weeks followed by 1 rest.
With this new posology, the patient's quality of life improves and can return to normal daily activities.
After one year of treatment with sunitinib, the patient had a partial response.
After 16 months of treatment, the patient goes to the clinic asymptomatic except for residual hand-foot syndrome, but the reassessment CT aims at pulmonary progression in relation to the significant growth of several metastatic pulmonary nodules.
At this time, it was decided to request the second-line approval of treatment with nivolumab.
After obtaining treatment approval, a second line is started with nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 14 days.
After 3 months of treatment, the patient is completely asymptomatic and the iconographic study shows a new partial response, with marked decrease in pulmonary nodules.
After 32 cycles of nivolumab, the patient lives normally and, as the only notable toxicity of the treatment, presents a pneumonitis at the level of the symptoms that does not cause dyspnea or other symptoms.
Respiratory function tests,▁bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage were performed to study pneumonitis, with no evidence of disease.
After 6 months of treatment with nivolumab, the patient achieved a complete response, with excellent tolerability and a normal life.
At 15 months of treatment with nivolumab, a 1.5 cm nodule is observed on CT scans of the right adrenal gland, with a complete response remaining in the pulmonary lesions.
The case is presented again in the Urological Tumors Committee and it was decided to perform a right adrenalectomy.
The pathological study reveals that it is a metastasis of clear cell carcinoma.
The patient continues to be treated with nivolumab, and post-surgical CT demonstrates the persistence of complete tumor response without other relevant findings except for pneumonitis, which does not condition any symptoms.
Currently, the patient has an overall survival of 3 years, has received 42 cycles of nivolumab, maintains complete response, is asymptomatic and lives an absolutely normal life.
