Anamnesis We report the case of a 60-year-old patient with no known drug allergies who had a history of pneumonia due to left pleural empyema and heart failure as the most important personal history.
As toxic habits the patient was ex-smoker (IPA = 80 up to 12 years ago), exenolism up to 12 years ago.
He was a mining worker.
The beginning of the study begins when she comes to the emergency room for right costal pain with a finding on the X-ray of a lung mass.
The study was completed with a computed tomography (CT) showing a mass of 60 x 53 x 80 mm that the lobeID bronchi of the posterior segment of the upper segment of the upper segment of the right upper lobe (ULL) and six upper lobe is removed through the right segment.
There was also an extrapleural ganglion of 9 mm and a satellite nodule spiculated in the apical segment LSD 10 x 6 mm and two nodules in segment 6 of the LID of 10 mm and 8 mm.
In addition, the patient presents with lymphadenopathy originating from the right brachiocephalic region, right upper paratracheal chain, subcarinal window and right loculated pulmonary effusion due to metastases, pericardial effusion and pleural effusion.
Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) 8-9) with decreased strength in both legs (4/5) and severe disability
▁Complementary tests The study was completed with a PET-CT in which a hypermetabolic mass of 7.8 x 7.7 cm (standardized uptake value [SUV] 9.6) in the upper segment of LID was observed.
▁Right bronchopulmonary adenopathies (urea 4,3b iliaca and vertebral) and multiple pathological uptakes in the 4th right posterior costal arch, 5th left anterior joint, 7th right sacral branch at the iliopu body
Fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy showed bronchial compression of the apical segment of the LSD.
Pathological Anatomy (PA) was negative for malignancy.
Therefore, in order to complete the study, EBUS of lymphadenopathies of stations 2R (right), 4L (left) and 7 that were positive for poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (2R and 7) was performed.
Diagnosis The case was presented in a multidisciplinary committee and referred to our consultations with the diagnosis of: lung adenocarcinoma T4N2M1b (osseas).
Treatment A decision was made to admit patients to on-going analgesia and start treatment.
Given the functional impotence clinic, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was requested, which showed metastatic dissemination with fractures of most of the mural masses, in addition to a posterior spinal compression fracture of the vertebral body caused by spinal compression.
The patient was treated with chemotherapy incidence of consolidation plaque under the curve (5-AUC), total dose 700 mg and 175 mg/m2 (287 mg), with usual premedication consisting of: grand anti-dexamethasone 5 mg.
During discharge, the patient had minimal sacral excoriation, which was attributed to bedding.
The patient was admitted to the emergency room one week after the administration of chemotherapy due to a low-grade fever and blistering lesions in the glulites, sacrum and left forearm.
Physical status Hemodynamically stable: arterial hypertension 111/60 mm Hg, heart rate 86 bpm, 36.3 oC, 88% oxygen saturation.
Less common and restrictive lesions secondary to bullae in the lateral zone of the left thigh, left forearm, left glue/sacral region.
The lesions presented with spontaneous rupture and drainage of serous content.
The analysis at admission only showed a sodium level of 126 and a mild leukocytosis with left shift (leucocytes 11,700, neutrophils 11,500), grade 1 anemia (hemoglobin 11,7) and a prothrombin activity of 74 %.
With suspected Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) epidermic seizure (sJS) admitted with suspected drug toxicity, on suspicion of study and treatment.
During admission to the plant is evaluated by plastic surgery and▁dermatology, cultures and skin biopsy are taken that are positive for Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus.
Pathological Anatomy » Skin fragment with dermoepidermal necrosis, ulceration of the entire epidermis.
» Discrete neutrophilic perivascular and interstitial dermatitis, superficial (predominantly) and deep, with ulceration of the epidermis and blood extravasation.
Epidermal necrolysis secondary to chemotherapy or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is suspected, but the latter are discontinued without improvement.
The subject presents a progressive worsening with leukocytosis and platelet count and finally the patient needs sedation due to poor pain control, dying only two weeks after the start of chemotherapy treatment.
