Anamnesis We report the case of a 79-year-old male, retired, with a history of hypertension, who underwent surgery for right inguinal hernia in 2008 and left knee prosthesis in 2011.
She received treatment with amikacin 5 mg and irbesartan 150 mg. In 2009, she was diagnosed with a localized prostate adenocarcinoma Gleason 5 + 4, due to PSA of 14 ng/ml.
She received local radiotherapy followed by double androgen deprivation for 3 years with leuprorelin and bicalutamide.
Reviews continued until June 2018, when the depositional rhythm was altered, locoregional recurrence was observed, with rectal cancer and lymph node involvement.
Prostatic biopsy confirmed a small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma in 100 %, so cisplatin-etoposis is started in which the patient receives 4 cycles until October 2018.
The patient developed grade 3 peripheral neuropathy, which resolved to discontinue treatment.
In January 2019, the patient presented with larvated symptoms of temporospatial disorientation, recent memory loss, as well as paroxysmal and self-limiting episodes of mandibular tremor, which led to the decision to admission for study.
Physical location Karnofsky Index 70.
Temporal disorientation with a marked impairment of immediate memory that recovers with cues.
Five episodes of left hemifacial chronies lasting 10 seconds were observed, with feeling of anguish and unprovoked▁crying.
▁Complementary tests blood count, biochemistry and coagulation were normal.
It is amplified with folic acid, B12, tumor markers, serology of varicella, hepatitis B, hepatitis C and QuantiFERON that are normal.
A cranial CT scan showed small vessel ischemia.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed hypersignal in both temporal lobes, at the right insular corticosubcortical level and left temporal amygdala, compatible with autoimmune encephalitis.
Video-electroencephalography (V-EEG) was performed without▁epileptiform activity.
IgA study was completed and basic thyroid immunologic study was negative.
Subsequently, antineuronal antibodies in blood were determined, with a positive result for anti-HU.
Diagnosis Therefore, we are faced with a patient with the diagnosis of autoimmune encephalitis vulgaris by anti-HUA antibodies, who presents locoregional and ganglionic relapse due to an undoubted neuroendocrine prostate carcinoma.
Treatment Anticonvulsant medication with levetiracetam was prescribed, with improvement in facial clonia.
Once the autoimmune etiology is known, intravenous boluses of methylprednisolone 1 g/24 hours are initiated for 5 days.
Requirement without initial favorable response to treatment is observed in new episodes of facial clonía, although memory failures persist.
After completing corticoid therapy, she presented three generalized tonic-clonic seizures without recovery, requiring orotracheal intubation and admission to the Intensive Care Unit.
Levetiracetam, midazolam and diazepam were administered with good evolution and the patient could be extubated.
A new treatment with rituximab associated with oral cyclophosphamide at metronomic doses was started, showing clinical improvement with disappearance of emotional lability, and no new seizures.
