Anamnesis Female patient, 68 years old, former smoker for more than 30 years.
She was operated on in 2007 by conservative surgery of triple negative right breast ductal carcinoma stage IA (pT1cN0).
She received adjuvant chemotherapy (6 cycles of MFC) and radiotherapy.
In September 2018, she began a study by Internal Medicine after autopalpation of a nodule in the right supraclavicular region.
In breast ultrasound and mammography, right axillary lymph nodes and laboratory tests were observed, with an increase in AC 15.3.
After axillary biopsy confirming carcinoma, an extension study was performed with CT, which only▁appreciates right axillary lymph nodes and bone scintigraphy (GGO), which describes only hyperuptake in the left sacroiliac joint pathologically.
In January 2019, right axillary lymphadenectomy was performed, resulting in metastasis of high-grade carcinoma with overgrowth in six nodes (6/9).
Immunohistochemistry shows intense positivity for estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor % and 50% respectively), proliferative index Ki 67 50-55 % and HER-2 negative.
Before being evaluated in outpatient clinics, the patient was admitted weekly in February 2019 with holocraneal headache, ptosis pigmentosa of one and diplopia, as well as polydipsia, nocturia and polyuria.
Physical training Good general condition
PS 1.
Neurological examination revealed ptosis cerebri, mydriasis, external ocular deviation and abolition of the photomotor reflex in the left eye; the rest were unremarkable.
▁Complementary tests Brain MRI shows a pituitary mass of 10 x 13 x 12 mm, which expands and occupies a mildly enhanced optic disk, with cranial growth and homogeneous thickening of the pituitary gland.
Hyperprophylaxis, hypothyroidism, hypercalcolism and antidiuretic hormone deficiency.
A new CT extension study was requested, which showed a sclerotic lesion in the left sacroiliac joint, followed by a study of the iliac metastasis border as a pelvic MRI finding.
Given the discrepancy between the phenotype of the carcinoma operated in 2007 and the phenotype of axillary lymph nodes, breast MRI was requested in search of a metachronous tumor, discarding second neoplasia.
Diagnosis A diagnosis of occult luminal breast tumor (TxN2M1) or triple negative relapse with different phenotype to that presented in 2007 with doubts of single bone metastasis is proposed.
On the other hand, it presents hypopituitarism secondary to sellar lesion that raises the differential diagnosis of metastasis of breast carcinoma, infundibulopituitary adenoma or pituitary macroadenoma minor crane paralysis, and hyperprone
With a view to a possible local treatment of brain injury and confirmatory study of bone injury (because it would be a single metastatic focus), it was decided to request PET.
It detects discrete uptake in the pituitary gland and left sacroiliac bone lesion with low rate of cell proliferation.
Therefore, it was not useful to clarify the nature of the lesions.
Treatment The decision was made to consult with Neurosurgery and finally avoid local treatment of the pituitary lesion given the complications it would entail, and systemic treatment of two diseases was initiated: » Given the radiological evolution of the tumour markers 21/2419
» Given the pituitary insufficiency, he begins treatment with dexamethasone 4 mg/8 h, levothyroxyne 25 mg/24 h and desmopressin 120 mcg/12 h sublingual, according to indications of endocrinology.
After the first treatment cycle, the patient was admitted due to an episode of mucositis G3 and oral muguet.
It presents slow and torpid evolution of oropharyngeal lesions, with aphthous ulcers that require local and systemic antifungal treatment (fluconazole 200 mg IV).
Oral endoscopy ruled out complications.
She presented toxicity: anemia G3 with transfusion requirements, neutropenia G3 and thrombopenia G2.
Liver function parameters were normal.
In addition, the patient suffered a bilateral bronchopneumonia bronchoconstriction with bronchoscope without isolation of other pathogens, also corroborated with normal serology and cytology.
Simultaneously, the patient developed a battle on the third finger of the left hand with the isolation of Streptococcus pyogenes sensitive to the drug, with good response to intravenous ceftriaxone, also trifilmetrexy is added to prednisone-
Subsequently, the patient complained of swelling, redness and edema of the right lower limb, suggestive of hypersensitivity.
Thrombosis was ruled out using venous Doppler ultrasound.
The patient improved clinically after intravenous antibiotic course with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.
Before discharge, a new GGO was performed, which continues to visualize a focus of hypercaptation in the left sacroiliac joint that has increased in size and intensity compared to previous scintigraphy, suggesting bone metastasis.
After hospital discharge, it was decided to suspend ribociclib for the adverse events experienced and maintain letrozole.
After three months of treatment, brain MRI showed a normal size and morphology of the adenohypophysis and neuropituitary gland, with no data on compression or displacement of the pituitary stalk, with normal contrast enhancement.
Clinically it is asymptomatic (without neurological deficit or endocrine symptoms) and with CEA levels 15.3 decreasing (100 U/ml at the beginning and 40 U/ml at present).
