Anamnesis A 68-year-old man with a history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, and ischemic heart disease.
In▁2015, stenting for abdominal aortic aneurysm was performed.
An important smoker with clinical criteria of chronic bronchitis and dyspnea on moderate exertion.
In April 2016, she was diagnosed with microcytic carcinoma of the right lower lobe (RLD), stage IV, with lymph node and pancreatic metastases.
During diagnosis, tumor markers: CEA 7.5 and neurospecific enolase 69.
First-line chemotherapy with platinum-etoposis was started showing partial response of lung mass and pancreatic and lymph node metastases at CT after 3 cycles with a decrease in neurospecific enolase.
After the fourth cycle, a 20 % reduction scheme was prescribed due to toxicity: thrombopenia G1 and anemia G3.
In additional controls by the Palliative Medicine Unit, dexamethasone 4 mg per day is prescribed as an orexy medication and home therapy with nasal glasses at 2 l/minute.
As a consequence, he develops hyperglycemias secondary to corticoid treatment, requiring the start of subcutaneous insulin.
Before the 6th cycle, assessed in the emergency department due to increased dyspnea, a reassessment CT was performed, which showed mediastinal and hiliar lymph node progression.
Stable lung mass.
The administration of the sixth cycle is suspended, and a second line treatment with oral topotecan is proposed, which begins in October 2016.
She was admitted from the emergency room on the 5th day of the first cycle of topotecan due to febrile neutropenia with probable respiratory focus.
Although there is no evidence of infiltrate in the chest X-ray, treatment with broad intravenous spectrum antibiotics is initiated: cefepime.
During the first days of admission, the patient complained of discomfort in the oral cavity and examination: mucositis G1 and muguet adding intravenous fluconazole and oral nystatin to antibiotic treatment.
On October 22, 2016, the patient complained of severe pain in the left mandibular region, which was associated with edema in the left maxillary region and ipsilateral lower eyelid.
Physical examination: exophthalmos of 3 mm in left eye.
Limitation to eye up-duction with isochoric and reactive pupils without afferent pupillary defect.
There was no decrease in visual acuity.
Black-gray in left hard hemipaladar measuring 3 cm in anteroposterior diameter and 2 cm in transverse diameter.
No other lesions in the oral cavity or palpable cervical lymphadenopathies.
During the directed anamnesis: the palate lesion has appeared in the previous 24 hours.
Nasal fibroscopy performed by otorhinolaryngology showed remnants of helium and septal perforation with mucous layer located in the left nasal cavity.
▁Complementary tests Clindamycin was added to cover anaerobic germs and an urgent evaluation and biopsy of the necrotic lesion in palate by Maxillofacial Surgery was requested.
An urgent facial CT was performed: it showed signs of ethmotic disease with presence of liquid gas levels, increase of soft parts at the level of the left mandibular region and sinus deformity of the neck muscle.
Fluconazole was suspended and treatment with liposomal amphotericin B 5 mg/kg body weight was initiated every 24 hours for suspected mucormycosis.
Diagnosis The isolation of filamentosa compatible with Rhizopus is confirmed in the culture of palate biopsy.
Treatment is evaluated by otorhinolaryngology, where urgent surgical intervention is proposed on October 24, 2016.
The surgical protocol describes mucormycosis affecting the anterior 2/3 of the hard palate, left maxillary, nasal septum, left orbit and ipsilateral posterior and anterior ethmoid cells.
En bloc▁orbital exenteration was performed with left maxillary and palatal, significant necrosis of the lateral nasal wall and of the papyraceous lamina.
Objective: To determine the presence of thrombosis and minimal skull-based Mucor imprint at the posterior ethmoid level (postsurgical CT).
After surgery, the patient needs enteral nutrition via nasogastric tube.
Treatment with amphotericin B at a dose of 6 mg/kg of weight is continued, adding caspoline, proven antifungal treatment sensitivity in the microbiological study of the surgical specimen.
Ev.▁~~~ Postsurgical discomfort unfavourable, with clinical worsening on the days after surgery: increased sensation of dysneic and continuous infusion analgesia due to craniofacial pain.
Progression of necrotic lesion on surgical scar of palate, despite maintained antifungal treatment.
Postsurgical changes of left maxillectomy and orbital exenteration with occupation of the left frontal sinus, etham and fen are observed in cranio-abdominal and control CT scans.
In the chest, increased lung mass and mediastinal lymphadenopathies are described with the appearance of diffuse bilateral infiltrates and right pleural effusion in relation to pulmonary edema or infectious process.
CT reports pulmonary progression of the disease.
There is still significant clinical, respiratory and global deterioration and, in view of the poor evolution, analgesic perfusion is increased limiting therapeutic effort, dying 11 days after surgery.
