Anamnesis Female patient, 54 years old, with no history of interest, diagnosed with clear cell renal carcinoma pT3N0M0.
It is treated with radical nephrectomy and subsequently presents systemic recurrence with lung metastases, performing surgical treatment of these metastases and treatment with pazopanib for four months until progression is observed.
At this time, he was referred to our center and entered into a clinical trial Ca209025 (evermus vs. nivolumab), starting treatment with corticosteroids at doses of 10 mg/day.
After one month of treatment, the patient was seen in the emergency department due to dyspnea on moderate exertion, fever and pleuritic pain of one week duration, with no associated cough or expectoration.
Physical examination revealed dry crackles in the right lung base, with no other findings of interest.
The patient was eupneic and had good oxygen saturation at rest.
▁Complementary tests did not show elevation of acute phase reactants or other significant alterations and the chest X-ray showed a right basal infiltrate.
Diagnosis:▁Right basal pneumonia vs. severe pneumonia.
Clinical suspicion and radiological diagnosis of right basal pneumonia and possible pneumonitis due to sepsis were suspended. Antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin was initiated and the patient was scheduled for one week.
One week later, the patient presented a clear deterioration of her general condition, with persistent fever and pleuritic pain despite conservative treatments.
On physical examination, the patient presented respiratory work, with saturation of 90% at rest and dry crackles at auscultation.
Laboratory tests revealed only mild▁lymphopenia, with no other relevant findings, and worsening of the infiltrate with LID and LM.
Hospital admission was decided, treatment with prednisone 60 mg daily was initiated and antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin was maintained.
Once in the plant, a chest CT is performed, confirming the existence of ground glass infiltrates in RLL and LM, with thickening of pharmacological interlobular septa, compatible with pneumonitis.
Regarding oncological disease, a partial response is described, with a decrease in the size of the pulmonary nodules.
A fibrobronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed in which cystis jirovencii was isolated in small quantities.
In this situation, treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was initiated and a negative beta-D-glucan assay was extended.
The patient has a favorable clinical evolution in the plant, with progressive decrease of oxygen requirements, resolution of the febricula and pleuritic pain.
A control X-ray was performed after one week, showing almost complete resolution of the infiltrates.
