Physical examination The patient was in good general condition, with normal color, well hydrated and perfused, eupneic.
The examination of the left breast revealed a vesicular lesion in the upper zone of the inner quadrant of 2 cm and another underlying scarring, indurated and painful ecchymosis of about 5 cm over the left breast.
Peripheral lymphadenopathy was not observed in the localization.
The rest of the scan is anodyne.
▁Complementary tests Biopsy of the larger lesion was taken, resulting nonspecific and without signs of malignancy.
The increase in size of the lesion and acquisition of necrotic appearance, in December 2016, is referred to the Pathological Service who repeats the biopsy, obtaining the same results.
It was decided, therefore, to perform surgical excision of the cutaneous lesion due to a melanoma on December 31, 2016, and to be informed as a histology compatible with cutaneous angiosarcoma.
Abdominal CT scan was performed for staging the disease, showing an increase in breast density with associated cutaneous thickening, underlying malignancy without evidence of mediastinal lymphadenopathy or inflammation
Diagnosis Conventional cutaneous angiosarcoma of 4.5 cm, histological grade 3 (according to the FNCLCC recording system), tumor extension to subcutaneous cellular tissue, mitotic index of 24 mitosis/10 CGA with free margins.
Immunohistochemistry was positive for CD34 and negative for HHV8 with a Ki 67 of 60 %.
TNM stage: pT1a Nx Mx.
2017 Presence of suspected disease and rapid local growth, value the case in committee of tumors of the breast Nephrology and Feminology February and Cable Persistent Mammectomy left breast,
The patient was referred to the outpatient clinic of Ontario in February 2017 for follow-up and subsequent treatment, with asymptomatic patient presenting with CDtr.
In March 2017, PET was performed to update the situation of the disease, finding a subcutaneous nodule of 8 mm hypermetabolic with SULpeak 1.9 located in the region anterior to the proximal end of the left pathological clareiculum of 2.65).
Ultrasound of soft tissues was performed, observing the presence of lymphadenopathy under pressure of 12 x 10 mm, in subcutaneous fat tissue, not adhered to or dependent on bone, and percutaneous biopsy was performed.
The results of the Pathological Anatomy reveal necrosis tissue without being able to recognize the lymph node.
Immunohistochemically, expression of CD31, CD34 and factor VIII was observed, with expression of negative estrogen receptors, suggesting metastasis of angiosarcoma.
In April 2017, metastases with free borders were surgically▁resected.
Due to the absence of macroscopic residual disease objectified in new PET intent starting with 2017, radiotherapy was rejected and it was decided, after reassessment of the case in conjunction with Nephrology, to administer 20 mg/17 paclitaxel weekly June 80
Currently, it takes three cycles of the 12 plan administered without incidents and maintaining stable renal function (baseline creatinine around 3.5).
