Anamnesis In the anamnesis performed on the eighth day, hampered by language impairment, the patient manifests pain in the right iliac wing and ipsilateral limb, and decreased mobility in the lower limbs, with a tendency to drowsiness.
The day before, he required catheterization for acute urinary retention.
Apathy and the presence of impoverished language are evidenced in the anamnesis with family members.
The ingestion of non-conventional dairy products and other harmful foods on the previous days or weeks is denied as a manifestation of the disease.
There are no family members who present a similar clinical picture.
Physical impairment Temperature of 36.2oC, systolic blood pressure of 130 mm Hg and systolic blood pressure of 80 mm Hg, heart rate of 75 bpm, respiratory rate of 14 breaths 97 per minute, ambient air saturation of %.
On the eighth day of neurological examination, attention deficit and inability to perform successive orders are highlighted.
Mixed features also included dysphasia altered fluency, abundant paraphasia and nomination difficulties.
In the motor examination, paresis of the left lower limb with muscular balance of two over five and increase of the ipsilateral reflexogenic area were observed.
On examination performed four days later, a low level of consciousness was observed, with a Glasgow Coma Scale of 13 over 15, neck stiffness and presence of meningeal signs.
▁Complementary tests showed no significant alterations in the analysis at admission or during the first days in the plant.
As part of the outpatient evaluation of the patient, a complete spinal magnetic resonance was performed on the third day, which showed metastases in several bodies ruling out spinal cord involvement.
Differential hemocultives drawn during the febrile peak were negative.
On the eighth day, when the clinical deterioration began, the patient was interconsulted to the Neurology service and a cranial CT was performed, showing doubtful meningeal enhancement at the tenth week.
The suspicion of meningeal carcinomatosis vs. metabolic encephalopathy, and to rule out seizure status, an urgent electroencephalogram was performed in which evident slow waves of moderate encephalopathy were observed.
With the previous findings and in the presence of neurological deterioration, an urgent brain MRI was performed on the tenth day that ruled out meningeal carcinomatosis, the presence of other lesions and indirect signs of spinal hypertension were ruled out.
The laboratory study of the cerebrospinal fluid showed clear liquid, with glucose 23 mg/dl, total proteins 198.2 mg/dl ADA < 8 U/l.
Initial visualization in Gram-positive bacilli, with the presence of Lis ethicillin-susceptible bacillus firming several days later.
Diagnosis » Acute acquired meningitis in the community due to Ampicillin-susceptible cough.
»▁Right lower limb paresis, mixed dysphasia and apraxia secondary to acute meningitis.
» Poor control of pain in relation to metastatic bone involvement.
» Stage IV sigma adenocarcinoma.
Treatment Given the presence of self-limiting and asymptomatic febrile syndrome on the fourth day of admission, and taking into account the observation in the patient's plant, it was decided not to start antibiotic treatment at that time.
However, in the presence of clinical deterioration during the eighth day and suspicion of subacute meningitis, empirical antibiotic therapy was initiated with ceftriaxone 2 g every 12 hours, vancomycin 1 g every 8 hours and dexamethasone 4 hours.
Subsequently, treatment was directed with the result of Gram stain using ampicillin associated with intravenous gentamicin for 7 days, with progressive reduction of corticosteroid therapy until suspension.
Gentamicin was then switched to trimethoprim-methoprim-methoprim-methoprim-sulfamethoxazole for ten days, maintaining ampicillin before switching to oral trimethoprim- monotherapy.
Finally, considering the toxicity profile, the patient was discharged with ampicillin monotherapy until at least 8 weeks of treatment was completed.
A progressive adjustment of the third-step analgesia associated with adjuvants was also performed during admission to the plant.
As for other types of pain upon admission, the patient was assessed jointly by the On-Mental State meningitis, the On-Mental Care Unit for Metastases, the Malnutrition Unit for Malnutrition,
As for meningitis, an improvement in the level of consciousness associated with hypersensitivity after four days of antibiotic treatment was observed, with complete disappearance of meningeal signs and▁rigidity of the neck on the sixth day of antibiotic therapy.
A new brain magnetic resonance imaging was performed on the 30th day after admission, which ruled out the presence of brain abscesses indicating the need to prolong treatment.
With regard to pain treatment, analgesic radiation therapy was performed on the lesion located in the right iliac wing, reducing the dose of drowsiness, which conditioned the patient's quality of life and a tendency to improve the level of consciousness.
As complications during admission, the patient had a self-limiting lower gastrointestinal bleeding, probably secondary to intestinal ischemia of hemodynamic origin that was managed conservatively after being evaluated by the digestive service and general surgery.
She also developed secondary toxicity to prolonged treatment with trimethoprime/methamtoxazol with the presence of bi-occurrence of seizures (methicillin G2 and leucopenia G1) which required change of treatment
The patient was discharged 40 days after admission, maintaining treatment with oral ampicillin.
An appointment was made for assessing antibiotic withdrawal and continuing oncological treatment.
