Anamnesis A 55-year-old male patient attended the Internal Medicine outpatient clinic in May 2013 due to▁malaise and chest tightness.
The patient had a personal history of type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with oral antidiabetic drugs, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, smoker of 80 packs/year.
Irrespective of the activities of daily living, she works in a butcher’s office.
Physical examination revealed good general condition with PS-EC 1, and anodyne physical examination.
▁Complementary tests An analysis was performed, highlighting leukocytosis with deviation to the left, with rest of anodyne values and tumor markers within normal limits.
Chest X-ray showed an enlarged upper▁mediastinum with increased density in the retrotracheal location. CAT scan showed a mass / lymphadenopathies with heterogeneous uptake in the right lobe to the lateral wall of the esophagus showing a large mass / lymph nodes with heterogeneous uptake in the right side
High and retrotracheal right paratracheal subcentimetric adenopathies.
Completing PET-CT study, a pulmonary neoformation in the right upper lobe with mediastinal non-extension was confirmed without other signs of malignancy.
The pathology was compatible with adenocarcinoma (EGFR -, ALK-).
Diagnosis This is a lung adenocarcinoma T4N1MO, EIIIA, EGFRwt and without ALK rearrangement.
Treatment Between June and September 2013 she received chemotherapy (CDDP 75 mg/m2 IV d1 + oral Navelbine 60 mg/m2 vo d1 and 8 every 21 days) and concomitant radiotherapy.
In Octubre 2014 she presented disease progression due to increased size of the lung mass in the right upper lobe (RUL), treated with chemotherapy with Carboplatin scheme AUC5 iv d1 + Paclitaxel d1 175mg/m2 in 2015 with primary tumor scheme, followed by a stability of 21 days
In May 2015 progression of the disease was observed at local and mediastinal lymph node levels, with increased size of the lesions and hypermetabolism on PET-CT.
The patient complained of severe asthenia and widespread osteoarticular pain that limited his daily activity.
Third line treatment with Nivolumab 3mg/kg was started every 14 days.
The patient presented rapid clinical improvement and radiological stability of the tumor lesions, with complete metabolic response on PET-CT after the 5th cycle of treatment.
The patient reported asthenia after 18 cycles of Nivolumab in April 2016, together with progressive dyspnea of several days of evolution until moderate efforts and dry cough in the stool.
Physical examination was anodyne.
A CT scan showed a persistent LSD lung mass, with signs of mediastinal invasion and right main bronchus entrapment.
▁Pneumonia was characterized by subpleural and minimally peribronchial peripheral condensations limited by fissure, and multiple bilateral nodular images were found in a glue-shaped organization, with the halo sign.
A significant growth was observed in the hiliar and mediastinal lymph nodes.
Given the context of the patient, this finding could correspond to the presentation of pulmonary mediastinal and lymph node disease vs changes secondary to pulmonary toxicity due to QT.
▁Evaluate the infectious environment.
In addition, in view of the CT findings, it was decided to perform fiberoptic▁bronchoscopy with a right tree with complete occlusion of the apical segment upper lobe bronchus and almost complete occlusion of the other segmental segment due to intense mucosal edema.
A study was completed with bronchoalveolar lavage of the upper lobe bronchus, obtaining negative cytology results for malignant cells, PCR M. tuberculosis and B.A.R negative and without growth in bacteriological culture and culture of the colon.
After the results of the complementary tests, without finding an evident infectious process and with suspicion of anti-PD1 as the cause of lung disease, it was decided to discontinue Nivolumab and start Dexamethasone 12mg/day, on a regimen
Therefore, the patient was clinically diagnosed with grade 2 pneumonitis, and the patient was symptomatic and did not require physiotherapy.
The patient rapidly presented clinical improvement with decreased asthenia and disappearance of respiratory symptoms, remaining asymptomatic.
A reassessment CT scan was performed one month later, observing minimal residual subpleural and peribronchial condensations in LSD with significant reduction compared to the previous study, and more disappearance of the lesions with a nodular glass sign.
There were no significant changes in lung mass.
A significant radiological improvement was observed due to complete disappearance of bilateral non-due and subtotal condensations in the subpleural and peribronchial areas of the LSD.
Because the patient was a grade 2 pneumonitis with complete resolution after treatment and good response of the tumor disease that was being obtained with Nivolumab, it was decided to reintroduce the treatment cycle, thus ruling out the 19th.
