Anamnesis 59 year old male without drug allergies.
He was an ex-smoker with a pack-year index of 15 and active alcohol consumption.
Morbid obesity and high blood pressure
Patient underwent liver transplantation in 2014 for alcoholic cirrhosis, currently undergoing treatment with a variety of therapies.
▁Oncological history The patient started in 2014 with a hepatic lesion in segment V-VIII suggestive of hepatocarcinoma.
Surgery was performed and pathological study suggested adenocarcinoma metastasis, with cytokeratin 7 positive and negative for CD10 and hepatocytes.
After this, she was followed up with a 6-monthly computed tomography (CT).
In the CT scan, the abdominal wall is located in two pulmonary nodules, one in the left upper lobe (LSI) and the other in the right upper lobe (LSD), which have grown compared to previous CT.
In November/2017, the biopsy of the LSI nodule was frustrated due to its small size and poor accessibility.
In September/2018, both lesions were biopsied.
Metastasis of cholangiocarcinoma occurred in the ISS nodule, while the LSD nodule presented cellular atypia of uncertain significance.
With the diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma lung metastases, the patient was informed of the alternatives, chemotherapy versus better support care, as well as the convenience of alcohol withdrawal and adjustment of treatment.
After showing his desire for active oncological treatment and considering that this is an immunosuppressed patient for a transplant, gemcitabine was initiated in February/2019 at a dose of 1,000 mg/m2 twice weekly with cisplatin.
The patient had thrombopenia and neutropenia grade 3 after the first cycle, so that it was not prescribed on day 15 and associated malformation was not ruled out.
It continued from the second cycle with reduced doses by 20 % and received the fourth cycle in May/2019.
Four days later, she presented with diarrhea associated with prerenal renal failure and required hospital admission on May 9, 2015.
During hospitalization, the result of the coprocultive is obtained: Campylobacter jejuni, so it is maintained on antibiotic treatment for 10 days with which diarrhea is resolved, showing clinical improvement and is discharged.
The patient was referred to the emergency department on May 24, 2016, from his regional hospital with suspected diagnosis of spinal cord compression versus brain metastases.
The patient began progressive loss of strength mainly in the lower limbs (LLL) of 4 days duration, which prevented him from walking and even standing, extending to the upper limbs (ULL).
No sensory deficit was observed.
The patient was treated with 1 dose of corticosteroids (8 mg dexamethasone IV) and managed in our hospital.
Establishment plan
▁Guided by three.
Good level of consciousness.
Higher functions preserved
Divergent strabismus already known since childhood (niega diplopia), normal eye movements, without campimetry defects by confrontation.
Facial, normal lower pairs (symmetrically centered palatine, uvula centered, XII pair unchanged).
Distal symmetrical tetraparesis with greater involvement of the lower limbs.
Muscle balance in upper limbs: 4/5 proximal and 2/5 distal; lower limbs: 1/5 proximal and 1/5 distal.
The follow up is positive and bilateral.
No affectation.
Universal reflex.
Cutaneous colitis (CPR) indifferent.
No dorsolumbar pain.
▁Complementary tests » General analysis: normal blood count, biochemistry and coagulation (except fibrinogen 887).
» Chest X-ray: pulmonary nodules already described in previous reports.
« Cranioencef Emergency Department» CT: no pathological findings.
Diagnosis Polyarthritis with acute demyelinating disease or Guillain-syndrome (GBS) in immunosuppressed patient with Campylobacter jejuni infection.
Acute axonal motor neuropathy (AMAN) was classified as the subtype of GBS.
Treatment She is admitted for treatment with IV immunoglobulins and is under close monitoring due to the possibility of disease progression and respiratory muscle involvement.
Sepsis was performed by lumbar puncture, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained from anodynes (without albumin-cytological diversion).
However, the demyelinating pathology (tetraparesis with universal areflexia, preceded by Campylobacter jejuni infection), is highly suggestive of polyarthritis, with no spinal cord injury.
Neurophysiologic studies were completed with electromyography (EMG) and electroneurography (ENG) compatible with acute mild motor polyneuron predominance
The patient received treatment with IV immunoglobulins for 5 days, the evolution was slow but favorable, with progressive increase in muscle strength.
