Anamnesis In this case, we present a 63-year-old patient, born in Badajoz.
As a personal history, she had a sister who had undergone breast cancer surgery at age 40 (currently in controls) and a sister who died of a brain tumor at age 34.
As for her personal history, she has chronic bronchitis.
No hypertension, dyslipidemia or diabetes mellitus were observed.
And finally, he is a smoker with an accumulated index of 40 packs a year, and has no alcohol habit.
Her oncological symptoms began with a one-month history of cough, associated with intense asthenia and dyspnea on minimal exertion in the last week, together with progressive edema in the lower limbs.
In the emergency department, the patient developed progressive hypotension, and severe pericardial effusion was observed, requiring ICU admission.
During his stay in the ICU, he underwent emergency pericardiocentesis (> 1l, hemorrhagic, seropurulent aspect).
Empirical antibiotic treatment was initiated, maintaining respiratory and hemodynamic stability (during admission she presented acute renal failure and community-acquired pneumonia that resolved).
Physical training: 1.
During physical examination, no remarkable findings were observed.
▁Complementary tests In the chest X-ray of the emergency department, an increase in cardiopericardial silhouette compatible with the pericardial effusion described was observed, as well as findings consistent with bronchopneumonia in▁SCI and LID.
During admission to the ICU, with the intention of filiating the cause of pericardial effusion, analytical tests were performed for screening rheumatic diseases, connective tissue diseases and serology, all within normal limits.
Body CT was also performed, which revealed lung cancer stage IV, presence of renal infarctions and bilateral adrenal nodules (adrenal CT without diagnostic criteria for adenoma).
Pericardial fluid was analyzed, with cytology suggestive of adenocarcinoma, which, when positive for TTF-1, suggested primary pulmonary sucking.
Diagnosis We therefore found a stage IV lung adenocarcinoma (positive pericardial effusion and bilateral adrenal nodules), EGFR-native.
It was decided to start treatment according to the scheme «sameplatinum + pemetrexed» in order to complete 3 cycles and assess response by CT.
Treatment Treatment: We initiated on December 1st, 16th, 17th, with conservative treatment with pemetrexed, with adrenal progression.
The study was completed by PDL-1 and ALK samples, and at the end of the study a lung adenocarcinoma EIV EGF-R and ALK negative and PDL-1 positive.
Treatment with nivolumab was initiated on 27/2/17, and she received 4 cycles (treatment response assessment CT after 6 cycles).
Emergency brain CT was requested due to persistent sensation of asthenia and dizziness, in which 8/3/17 of multiple brain metastases with perilesional edema were diagnosed.
The patient received holocraneal RT (20 Gy in 5 episodes), which ended on 29/3/17, with good tolerance and clinical improvement.
The patient was admitted to the emergency room due to dysthermic sensation and chills, fever of up to 39 oC on day 21/4/17.
Empirical antibiotic therapy with levofloxacin was started, with fever peaks and progressive dyspnea persisting until minimal exertion was made.
He did not report any other associated symptoms, with a physical examination without relevant findings and normal blood tests, without altered acute phase reactants.
Chest X-ray showed a diffuse interstitial pattern, with differential diagnosis as the first choice of infectious disease due to atypical germs vs pharmacological toxicity (less likely pulmonary edema or carcinomatous lymphangitis).
On admission, broad-spectrum empirical treatment with ceftriaxone and levofloxacin was initiated.
A chest CT scan showed an image compatible with cystic jirovecii infection as the first option, bilateral pneumothorax and acute thromboembolism of low thromboembolic load.
Given these findings, cotrimoxazole is associated with treatment with levofloxacin and systemic therapy is prescribed when there is suspicion of cystis infection (anticoagulation is already present in the patient with prior corticosteroid therapy).
The patient was evaluated by the Respiratory Service, which requested▁bronchoscopy for culture, but was annulled due to clinical worsening of the patient, with respiratory failure (asymmetry ruled out placement of a conservative chest tube due to poor bilateral management).
In the sputum culture of 5/5/17, coagulase-negative staphylococci, Candida albicans (colony rares), with Legionella and cystis grow negative.
During admission, she presented intolerance to cotrimoxazole, with uncontrollable vomiting despite antiemetics and metabolic acidosis (followed by bicarbonate).
It was decided to suspend treatment with oral cotrimoxazole and initiate prophylaxis, with improvement of tolerance.
Nevertheless, the patient has progressive worsening from the respiratory point of view, requiring a progressive increase in O2 intake.
A control chest X-ray showed pneumomediastinum with subcutaneous emphysema and pneumothorax. Antibiotic treatment with Tazocel® was initiated, maintaining curettage.
It was decided to start conservative chloride for control of sensation of dyspnea and, in the event of a poor subsequent clinical evolution, it was decided to suspend supportive treatment and start sedation to control symptoms, with exitus on May 12, 2015.
We're waiting for the autopsy.
