We present the case of a 30-year-old male, with no relevant medical and surgical history, who consulted for a left cervical tumor of several months of evolution. The patient reported night sweats as the only anamnesis in the last months.
On examination, a tumor measuring approximately 5x5cm was found in the lower third of the lower third. The auscultation revealed deep non-mustoid diameter (DCM) changes of elastic consistency, poorly defined, non-skin-adherent
A computed tomography (CT) guided puncture was requested and reported as a cellularity of the lymph node with indeterminate changes that cannot be typified cytologically, recommending viral serological study.
On contrast-enhanced CT, a solid, well-defined, homogeneous 5x7 cm mass was observed, located in the left cervical vascular space▁compressing the left internal jugular vein, with some adjacent adenopathy.
He did not have a hyperuptake suggesting carotid glomus.
The radiological differential diagnosis included▁lymphoproliferative process, neurogenic tumor or mesenchymal tumor.
Under general anesthesia, a horizontal left supraclavicular incision and section of the MCE muscle at this level were performed to obtain adequate exposure.
A tumor of 5x7 cm of congestive aspect, hard with intense peripheral vascularization that hindered its dissection was found; the tumor presented a plane of separation with the vascular space.
The clinical aspect at the time of surgery impressed the authors of vascular tumor.
In the anatomopathological study of the specimen it was found that it was a lymph node with preserved architecture and marked increase in the number of▁lymphoid follicles and positivity for▁immunohistochemical markers (CD20+CD10+, b).
The germinal centers showed hyaline material, some vessels and arrangement in onion layers of the▁lymphocytic corona.
The number of plasma cells (CD138) were within the normal range and showed no restriction for the light chains of immunoglobulins (kappa and lambda).
The presence of human herpes virus type 8 (HHV 8) was not detected by PCR in the molecular study.
A CT scan showed non-malignant melanoma.
Complete blood tests, immunological tests and serology were normal.
These findings represent the localized form of▁lymphoid angiofollicular hyperplasia or Castleman's disease, hyaline-vascular variant.
