A 32-year-old male, with no relevant past medical history and no previous treatment, was operated on due to splenic hide, mesennia and spinal cord injury, spinal cord injury, and spinal cord injury (SMA).
Resection of colon, ileum and 2/3 of the ileum with and without stenosis resection was performed.
After the postoperative period and subjected to TPN, oral tolerance was initiated with oral infusions to caudates, oral pastes of Strong Acquisition® and alkaline liquid (WHO supplement) to introduce small and frequent intakes.
Six months later, anastomoses were performed at 12 cm with the left colon and the cholecystectomy was performed to avoid subsequent episodes of diarrhea.
Thereafter, the objective is to maintain a stable nutritional status, diuresis greater than liter/day, and diarrhea control, daily balances being determined twice a week and biochemical parameters being assessed.
Nutritional behavior: structure of a) nutrition of mEqd alterne is replaced by seme structure with Isoplasmar G® (addition of an ampoule of 10 potassium/litre and oligoelements module A).
(b) Oral Enteral Nutrition: 4-5 "Elemental 0.28 Extra Liquid" and 3 5 g "Adamín G" intakes are maintained by interacting with food intakes.
(c) Oral hygiene: is prodigal, on demand and between meals, to take "alkaline liquid".
(d) Allocation: with progressive criteria, starting with foods that are easily digestible and absorbed and with less secretory stimulus to continue with those that are more difficult.
From a diet that is magic-admixed to Carbon (HC) simple and cooked starches is now included, depending on the rate, volume and characteristics of the feces, protein foods (soft meats).
In any case, small, frequent and simple preparation doses are available.
(e) Medication: to reduce chlorhydropeptic acid and stimulate pancreatic water and bicarbonate secretion (40 mg/day) and to facilitate digestibility of natural foods® 10,000 associated enzymes and their availability 2K capsules
The appearance of abdominal distraction due to the consecutive installation of excess CH in the first phase accelerated the transition to normal feeding, specially cold, cold, and moderate control of CH in animals
Three months after jejunocolic anastomosis nutritional stability, diuresis and 4-6 liquid-pastose consistency stools are maintained.
The patient was discharged with the above-mentioned treatment and a reservoir for nocturnal fluid therapy with Isoplasmar G as a function of diuresis.
▁Evaluated by the intestinal transplantation unit of Hospital Ramón y Cajal of Madrid and 14 months after starting enteral nutrition, the indication for transplantation is rejected due to good nutritional status.
Fluid therapy was suspended maintaining diuresis above 1,200 mL/day, 3-5 depositions of pasty consistency or shaped (according to type of intake), and stable anthropometric and analytical parameters with hypolipemia.
The rapid loss of 7-8 kg after fluid therapy withdrawal stands out, finally reaching 64 kg for a height of 175 cm and a usual weight of 70 kg.
With their own autonomy, they maintain moderate physical activity.
Follow a frequent free diet and small intakes, only limited by specific intolerances, and often eat mineralized beverages.
You have been prescribed: "Elemental 0.28 Extra Fluid" (800 kcal/day), 2 capsules of "Kreon 10,000®" with each food intake, 2 tablets of "Supradyn®
▁Throughout the evolution, vitamin D, B12 and ac depletion was detected.
Fluid; they were corrected with the corresponding shock dose.
Tables I, II and III register the analytical determinations of nutrients practiced during the period between 6 months after the intervention to the last performed, where a stable and progressive nutritional state is observed within the normal range.
