We report the case of a 30-month-old girl who came to the emergency department for presenting in the last two days slight instability in gait and intentional tremor.
The parents reported that three weeks before a mild generalized rash without fever had appeared, which resolved spontaneously in a few days.
Her personal history included no known allergies or previous trauma, and her immunization schedule was updated, including chickenpox.
His psychomotor development was normal.
The patient was reevaluated 48 hours later, highlighting a worsening of ataxia that prevented standing, associated with severe irritation and irregular sleep.
On physical examination at admission the patient had a good nutritional status and no meningeal signs, external signs of trauma or other pathological findings were found.
In the neurological examination, a speech is featured intentional but unconstrained and appropriate to the context, ataxia with cerebellar characteristics, and intense and generalized tremor.
The cranial nerves, strength, muscle tone and osteotendinous reflexes were normal and symmetrical.
Upon admission, an EEG (EEG) and brain CT (CT) with contrast ̈, ̈non-contrast ̈ were performed, which revealed no electroencephalographic or structural abnormalities.
Urine toxics were negative.
Lumbar puncture showed a mild▁lymphorrhachia with biochemistry and negative cultures, including Herpes group, neurotropic virus and Borrelia.
Serology for Herpes simplex virus, Epstein-acquired, Varicella-zoster virus, enterovirus, Salmonella sp., Streptococcus pyogenes and Borrelia burgdoferi did not provide pathological findings
On the fifth day after the onset of symptoms, the patient had intentional tremor and ataxia with a predominance of severe troncal ataxia that made sitting difficult.
The tremor was aggravated by probable intentional reinforcement myoclonus and the irritability was extreme.
There were rapid, saccade, multidirectional, chaotic, but conjugated eye movements, which were also▁appreciated with closed eyes, and which decreased when they succeeded in fixing their gaze.
The clinical diagnosis of opsoclonus (SOMA) began searching for a possible tumor.
An abdominal ultrasound was requested, with a normal result, and a simple chest X-ray showed a left thoracic mass.
A CT scan of the chest revealed a left thoracic mass consistent with TCN, which was confirmed after surgery as a localized ganglioneuroblastoma.
A 24-hour urine specific neuronal enolase and catechiae were also requested, which were normal.
Opsoclonus decreased after the start of high-dose oral prednisone (2 mg/kg/day), and 15 days after surgery was no longer observed.
Ataxia and irritation improved markedly, but one year later treatment with oral prednisone at minimum daily doses for relapses of mild gait instability and irritation is still required, with no evidence of tumor recurrence to date.
Psychomotor development continues to progress within normal limits.
