A 51-year-old woman with a history of unilateral adnexectomy due to a fever of up to 40 oC and odynophagia after 24 hours of evolution presented with fever, partially remitting endometriosis.
Vomiting and several diarrheal stools appeared later, with persistence of the febrile syndrome, so he went to the health center.
After medical evaluation, antipyretic treatment and home observation were prescribed.
Some hours later, she suffered a worsening of her general condition, with hypotension, also referring headache and back pain, so she was referred to the emergency department, which decided to transfer her to the hospital.
Physical examination revealed a regular general condition, tachypnea at rest and tachycardia, and blood pressure could not be measured, nor could radial peripheral pulses be detected.
There is no neck stiffness or neurological focality.
Blood tests and gas analysis revealed marked leukocyte (2.440/ml) and metabolic acidosis (pH 7.21; HCO3 14/l; EB -11.1/l).
The patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), where despite receiving treatment with corticosteroids and intravenous antibiotic therapy, she worsened and died 2 hours later, after performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation maneuvers.
Due to the torpid evolution and uncertain origin of shock, death is not certified.
Autopsy findings As significant findings, the external examination revealed a generalized skin rash, more pronounced at the lower level and affecting the anterior side of the upper third of the chest, and petechiae in the tarsal conjunctiva.
Macroscopically, the internal examination showed: - Moderate pulmonary congestion with significant pulmonary edema of alveolar and interstitial characteristics with bronchial foam.
- right pleural effusion.
Mild pericardial effusion.
- Exudative fluid in subcutaneous retromammary tissue on both sides, with purulent appearance.
-▁Haemorrhagic liver disease.
- Both adrenal glands with congestive heart failure.
- The encephalon has a generalised congestive and edematous appearance, with a casual finding of a cyst in the left parietal lobe.
Samples of the brain, lung, liver, spleen, adrenals, heart, peripheral blood, vitreous humor, pericardial fluid, pleural content, right pleural swab, bronchial swab are sent for toxicological, microbiological and histopathological studies.
The results of the microbiological study performed by antigenic techniques, culture and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) detect the presence of N. meningitidis serogroup C in peripheral blood, serum and sera.
The epidemiological characterization of the strain and the study of antibiotic resistance by minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) were performed.
Histopathological findings are described as encephalon congestion and edema, as well as the existence of a transitional-psamomatous meningioma.
Both adrenal glands present severe hemorrhage; the liver shows signs suggestive of shock in the initial phase, and renal alterations compatible with ICD.
In addition, a diagnosis is made of epidermolysis bullosa and certain neutrophilic myosin.
Toxicological studies show only positive result for metamizole.
Selected in the described findings are established as causes of death: multiorgan failure produced by septicemia fulminant by meningococci (N. meningitidis serogroup C) and Watersenhouse syndrome
