The patient was admitted at 45 days of life (day 0) in our unit due to moderate-severe dermatitis caused by acute gastroenteritis.
The following data of interest are highlighted: preterm newborn of 32 weeks of gestational age with adequate birth weight (2.060 g) and Down syndrome, diagnosed in the first week of life of FT.
He had not presented any hypoxic crisis before admission.
His curve was adequate.
On ultrasound (Snos 100 CF, Hewlett Packard and 50percent nasal oscillating oscillates, USA), a gradient of 70 mmHg was observed, the basal O2 saturation for ABG was 92%.
On the third day she presented acute hypovolemic shock due to severe diarrhea, requiring volume expansion, intubation and connection to mechanical ventilation (MV).
After a good clinical response, the patient was extuded after 6 hours with good clinical and gasometric tolerance.
On the fifth day, he began with progressive dyspnea, chronic cough, bilateral crackles without wheezing, requiring reintubation and connection to MV (Baby Medilog 8000techn plus, Dräger
Lübeck, Germany).
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) determination in nasal mucus was negative.
On the eighth day, she developed progressive oligoanuria with generalized edema (maximum weight gain of 16% on the ninth day) and increased oxygen requirements (FiO2: 100%), with significant reduction in pulmonary compliance.
Invasive AMT remained above 45 mmHg (percentile 5 for age: 43 mmHg): there was no pathological thermal gradient or coagulopathy.
On auscultation, the heart murmur changed in characteristics, becoming shorter and less intense (suggesting suprasystemic PHP).
Prone ventilation only achieved mild improvement for 2-3 hours (degree feedback index [IO] from 19 to 16) and the patient did not▁tolerate increased positive pressure at the end of the procedure (higher systemic hypotension [PEE]).
After ruling out infundibular spasm on ultrasound and verifying PPH (relaxation shunt reversal [CIV]), treatment with ONI was started at 40 ppm.
After a good response, it was maintained at 20 ppm.
The INR and nitrous oxide (ppppm NOxMP plus, Bedfont Scientific Ltd, Upchurch Kent, England) were continuously monitored and maintained in ranges less than 3 years.
The patient was also treated with dopamine infusion at 8 μg/kg/minute.
Chest X-ray showed bilateral alveolar infiltrates and mild pulmonary oligoperfusion.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa was isolated in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and antibiotic treatment was initiated.
On day 12, resolution of acute renal failure and edema was observed, without treatment with renal function tests.
Since day 30, progressive improvement in respiratory dynamics was observed,▁tolerating progressive weaning from ONI (previously could not be reduced to less than 15 ppm for not▁tolerating the patient).
On day 35, the patient was extubated.
