A 9-year-old male, with no history of interest, complained of myodesopsias of two days of evolution in OI.
In the exploration unit, visual acuity (VA) in left eye (LE) is highlighted 1.
In the biomycosis uveitis anterior mild diameter and a funduscopic image of an active chorioretinitis foci to a papilla.
Due to the characteristics of the focus and its location, the patient was diagnosed with toxoplasmic chorioretinitis and was prescribed conservative treatment adjusted adiazecin, kg pyracidosis and folinic acid orally.
After 9 days of treatment, the patient came back to the emergency department with a 39o C fever, a rash on the chest, back and face, blisters on the oral mucosa, pneumonitis and balanitis.
Pathological level presents bilateral upper hyposphagma, membranous conjunctivitis with exudative component and superficial keratopathy in both eyes.
Blood culture, hepatorenal profile, oral mucosa smear for viruses, herpes serology and mycoplasma were requested.
All results were negative and serology for toxoplasma was IgG>500, IgM negative.
suspect SJS secondary to choleradiacin is immediately removed, all medication for ocular toxoplasmosis is immediately withdrawn and periodic check-ups are performed from the eye, which is considered as a complication of spontaneous healing without complications.
Since the day of admission, he required comprehensive care of skin and mucosa, parenteral nutrition and intravenous chloride (IV) analgesia.
Methylprednisolone 1 mg/kg/day i.v. was then prescribed, and the regimen was continued until discharge.
The patient was admitted to the emergency room with fever, cough, nausea, vomiting, constipation, nausea, vomiting, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, constipation, nausea, vomiting etc.
Symbolic lysis was performed every 12 hours of membranes initially very exudative, abundant and extractable and later more adhered to, fibrotic requiring scarification to remove them.
After 3 weeks of treatment, a residual hyposphagma was observed, in the semilunar thickening of the internal canthus, with thickening of the free edge and mild reduction of the fold.
