A 60-year-old male patient with a Björk-metallic mitral valve stenosis and congestive tricuspid annuloplasty 20 years ago for rheumatic heart valve disease, chronic atrial fibrillation NYHA I, hypertension,
He was treated with acenocoumarol.
She was admitted to our service due to fever, chills, and worsening of her habitual dyspnea, with the appearance of orthopnea and edema in the lower limbs.
The clinical examination was compatible with CHF (swollen jugular veins, arrhythmic pulse at 100 bpm, gallop rhythm, bilateral basal pulmonary crepitant, hepatomegaly reflex in the lower limbs).
Laboratory tests showed a hemoglobin of 12.4 g/L, leukocytes 17.810/ml, with 87% neutrophils, and the rest of the usual parameters were within normal limits.
The chest X-ray showed signs of CHF.
Serial hemocultives were performed in which Neisseria Sicca was persistently isolated, so treatment with intravenous sodium penicillin G 24 million units in continuous infusion and Gentamicin was started.
every 8 hours (2 first weeks), the patient remains afflicted on the third day of starting treatment.
(4) During admission, reddish and painful lesions appeared in the finger pulps of both hands compatible with vasculitic phenomena (Infecture), performing, therefore, the diagnosis of Endocrinitis according to clinical criteria.
Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) showed a normal functioning mitral valve and absence of vegetations.
On the 9th day of treatment the patient presented a sudden episode of loss of strength in the left hemibody, visualized in a cranial CAT scan with hyper-occipital foci compatible with temporal-parietal and hemorrhagic level 3.
That's the time at I.N.R.
It was 2.45, despite which anticoagulation was suspended.
Four days later, and after stabilization of the patient, it was decided to restart anticoagulation with intravenous heparin sodium, completing 6 weeks of antibiotic treatment and heparin.
The control brain CT scan after treatment showed persistent occipitoparietal hematoma, with other hemorrhagic foci.
These findings and the possibility of rebleeding were discharged with bemiparin 10,000 IU.
once daily for 3 months after which a new echocardiographic study and a head CT scan were performed which demonstrated normal mitral valve and asymptomatic resolution of the cerebral hematoma.
