A 78-year-old patient with a history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis, and recurrent nephritic colic who, 6 days before admission, started with pain in the right renal fossa radiating to the ipsilateral knee, was treated with ambulatory texam.
Subsequently, the patient began with dysthermic sensation with temperature above 38oC, poor general condition, urinary symptoms and glycemic control, due to admission to hospital.
Physical examination revealed a marked affectation of general condition, fever, pain in the sacral area with a negative bilateral percussion wrist and knees with phlogistic signs.
In the laboratory, we observed mild leukocytosis without left shift (12.100x103/mm3 with N 65%), hyperbilirubinemia of direct predominance (BT: 3.4 mg/dl, BD: 2.7mg/ 215dl/L), alkaline phosphatase
The rest of the analytical did not show significant alterations.
As complementary examinations are performed hemo- and urocultive, puncture and cultures of joint fluid, CT of the abdominal and lumbosacra spine, magnetic resonance of the lumbar spine and gammagraphy with Ga-67/MDP-Tc-99.
Abdominal and lumbosacra CT scans show air densities in the right lumbar and psoas muscles and in the intraspinal and dorsal locations.
Gas in the bone canal that could correspond to rupture disc L4-L5 is also visualized.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbar spine confirmed images of abscesses compatible with right bundle and pso muscles, and localized psoas in L4-L5 spaces suggestive of epidural abscesses in D12-L4.
An alteration of the signal of the D12 body was observed after administration of gadolinium translated into bone edema compatible with spondylitis and probable spondylodyscitis.
In the body scan combined with Ga-67/MDP-Tc-99M there is pathological hyperfixation of both tracers in the knees and shoulders suggesting an increased inflammatory-infectious process as well as in adjacent soft tissues L4-L5 uptake.
On admission, empirical antibiotic treatment with ciprofloxacin was started, confirming the presence of Escherichia coli with similar antibiogram in microbiology (cultivations of blood, urine and joint fluid).
During the first days of treatment, the patient achieved a slight improvement in symptomatology, with the introduction of antibiotics and antipyretics.
On the 10 day of admission, the fever reappeared and the general condition progressively worsened.
On the 12th day of admission, the patient developed atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response and cardiorespiratory arrest unresponsive to resuscitation maneuvers.
The diagnosis was urinary tract infection due to E. coli complicated with polyarticular septic arthritis, spondylodyscitis, epidural abscesses, psoas and dorsolumbar muscles.
