A 64-year-old male patient was referred to the Internal Medicine Department of the Cardiology Department due to fever above 38.3 °C, with more than 3 weeks of evolution without source after 5 weeks of study.
On admission, the patient was under treatment with gliclazide (1-1-1) and acarbose (1-1-1) to control type 2 diabetes mellitus, Atorvastatin (0-0-20 mg) as prophylaxis for hypertension control (5-150 mg▁acetylsalicylic acid, quina).
In addition to these pathologies, the patient presented with severe aortic valve stenosis and moderate aortic insufficiency, which required valve replacement with bioprosthesis Mitroflow No. 23 in March of the year of admission.
Upon admission to the Cardiology Department, a five-week history of fever was performed. The patient was asymptomatic when the prosthetic valve was removed. A transesophageal echocardiogram ruled out the presence of empirical endocarditis and did not show functional alterations after discharge.
During the discharge, the patient undergoes periodic checks of body temperature. Four weeks later, a new elevation was detected. The patient came to our hospital and was admitted for a second time in the Department of Cardiology with a diagnosis of endocarditis caused by new
After admission, fever greater than 38.3 °C, peaks of up to 39 °C, blood pressure of 150/70 mm mercury, and a heart rate of 104 beats per minute are confirmed.
On physical examination, the patient is normal-colored and normal-perfused, cardiac auscultation does not show murmurs, pulmonary auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur without evidence of roncus adenopathy or foci of infection, crackling
▁Complementary tests corresponding to the study of fever of unknown origin according to protocol 7 were performed with a blood count that presents 14,000 leukocytes (70% neutrophils and 5% fallen) and 1371 g/dl hemoglobin.
Biochemistry showed normal renal and hepatic function with normal glycemia.
A peripheral blood smear was performed confirming the complete blood count without other pathological findings.
The chest X-ray did not show any pathological data or changes in the X-rays corresponding to previous admissions.
A radiograph of the paranasal sinuses showed hypoplasia of the left frontal sinus.
The transesophageal echocardiogram did not show data of endocarditis, abscesses or fistulas, along with a normal functioning aortic prosthesis.
Subsequently, a Ga67 scintigraphy was performed, with no tracer deposits observed in the toracoabdominal region.
To complete the study of fever of unknown origin tumor markers (alphafetoprotein, CEA-II, Ca 19.9n Ca 125II, BR 27.29, total PSA, Ca15.3 negative antinuclear antibodies, enolase antibodies)
Since admission, blood cultures are taken after taking a body temperature above 37.5 °C, being positive in the four that are performed for Leuconostoc spp., and antibiogram showing susceptibility to amoxicillin.
Due to the existence of bioprosthesis, the patient is treated for 8 weeks as if it were endocarditis, despite there being no evident lesions with transesophageal echocardiography.
▁Periodic controls were carried out for 1 year since discharge, without fever or clinical data that would lead to suspicion of any complication or valve complications.
