A 14-year-old male patient, previously asymptomatic, living in the city of Medellin, who was admitted to the Urology Department of Hospital Pablo Tobón Uribe with a diagnosis of left testicular mass.
The patient incidentally presented a painless testicular mass in left and left area, without noticeable growth of this mass over time, not related to local trauma or associated with other symptoms.
The patient was initially diagnosed with doppler's disease and ordered an ultrasound study which showed a rounded pattern in the left sac and two mm, well-defined, similar in size, shape and echogenicity x 11ler.
This study ruled out lesions in the epididymis.
With this result they suggest ruling out testicular mass or supernumerary testicle and refer it to the internist physician, who orders a magnetic resonance imaging (NMR), which reported the presence of three well-defined structures of appearance or sac.
2. No masses or lymphadenopathies.
For these findings, they refer him to urology.
Patient with negative personal history.
On physical examination the patient was in good general condition, with vital signs within normal parameters for age and adequate pondoestural development; in the abdomen he did not have palpable masses or inguinal hernias.
In the external genitalia, the normal penis was observed, and there were no painful signs of healthy testicles and an adenomatous spherical mass located in the upper area (proximal) of the left hemiscrotum was easily separated.
On the basis of the clinical history, studies and findings on physical examination make a diagnostic impression of paratesticular mass or PQ.
With this clinical approach and previous review of the subject it was decided to carry out surgery for exploration and resection of this lesion, prior informed consent of the patient and his family.
Under general anesthesia, an epiprecision was performed in one layer and was compatible with posterior dissection up to the albuginea on the left side, observing the presence of two structures of equal size, aspect and proximal consistency with testicles.
A section, ligation with exhaustive hemostasis and section of the latter was performed; a rounded carmelite structure of firm consistency of approximately 1.2 cm in its largest diameter was obtained for pathological study.
A pocket is made in a sub-data space where the healthy testicle is lodged. It is fixed with a poli-gyne Johnson & Johnson Vicryl® 4-0 (absorbable suture material).
Planar closure was performed and the left ilioinguinal nerve was blocked.
She was discharged in the immediate postoperative period and evolved satisfactorily without complications.
Two fragments are used for pathology report and a normal testicle is reported in histological sections.
No intratubular seminal neoplasia.
