An 81-year-old female patient presented in the emergency department with a 2-week history of asthenia, anorexia and right lumbar pain.
Hemodynamically stable, with fever (38.5 degrees) for 3 days.
She had a history of heart failure associated with atrial fibrillation, with no history of urological diseases.
On physical examination, the patient complained of pain on palpation and deep located in the right hemiabdomen, with no signs of peritoneal irritation, with the presence of a palpable mass and renal Murphy positive to the right.
The analyses showed leuocytosis (22,390 with left shift), normocytic normochromic anemia, with renal function within normal parameters, leucituria and microscopic hematuria.
A reno-vesical radiograph showed multiple radiopaque▁calculi located in the right kidney.
Computed tomography scan of the kidney revealed a large bowel disease with intravenous contrast injection. There was an enlarged right kidney with corticospinal disorganisation and multiple stones in the pelvis.
We observed the presence of abundant purulent fluid leaking through the nephrostomy that the culture of the same reveals polymicrobial flora.
He started broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic therapy.
After four days and due to the more suitable surgical conditions, we performed right nephrectomy through a lumbotomy.
The description of the surgical specimen is: Kidney (13x8.5x5 cm) sent with ureteral segment 10 cm long and presence of perirenal adipose tissue.
Dilatation of the pyelocaliceal tree and marked renal parenchyma is observed.
In the interior of the pyelic tree, the purulent content is present and▁calculi are identified with a diameter greater than 4.5 cm.
There are foci of suppuration with abcedification of the renal parenchyma and perirenal adipose tissue.
In the pelvis and adjacent cavities, white tissue with soft consistency measuring 6x5 cm away 10 cm from the ureteral surgical top is observed.
Adenocarcinoma with predominant tubular pattern areas and focal areas with▁tubulovillous pattern is observed histologically.The neoplasia presents characteristics of intestinal type adenocarcinoma, being possible to identify more aggressive Goblet cells of the intestinal type that are characterized by irregular mitotic areas.
Neoplasia is defined as subepithelial connective tissue.
In the foot-and-mouth disease coating, glandular metaplasia of the urothelial epithelium is identified.
Six months after surgery the patient died.
