A 68-year-old patient with a history of severe mental retardation and deafness secondary to meningitis in childhood.
She was admitted to our emergency department with pain and inflammation in the left hemiscrotum of more than 3 weeks duration, which did not respond to antibiotic treatment and antiscrotum despite treatment.
The examination revealed a generalized increase in content, more pronounced on the left side, with painful testis to palpation, of firm consistency, thickened epididymis surface.
The right testicle was normal.
Urine sediment revealed pyuria.
An enlarged heterogeneous left test was observed by ultrasound, with an area in medial position with multiple cystic cavities, some of them hypoechogenic.
The patient was diagnosed with orchitis progressing and was discharged with analgesic anti-inflammatory treatment.
Eight days later, the patient came to the urology clinic where the consolidation clearly defined a nodule, which suggested a differential diagnosis with testicular neoplasia.
A left radical orchiectomy was performed, after determination of tumor markers (b-HCG, alpha-fetoprotein and LDH), which were normal.
Macroscopically, the section surface of the orchiectomy specimen showed thickening of the tunica albuginea, with hemorrhagic zones.
The testicular parenchyma was increased in consistency, with presence at the cut of fibroblanque tracts and plaques.
Microscopic examination revealed hypospermatogenesis marked by hyalinization of the seminiferous▁tubules, as well as a chronic inflammatory process consisting of histiocytes, abundant plasma cells and giant cells.
Within some of these cells, the characteristic bodies of Michaelis-Gutmann were recognized with a "bud eye" appearance, which were positive for calcium MLP, thus suggesting its composition.
These inflammatory changes also partially affected the epididymis.
With the diagnosis of testicular and epididymal PLM, treatment was completed with a fluoroquinolone regimen for 3 months, after which the evolution is satisfactory and the patient is asymptomatic.
