A 60-year-old male with no relevant past medical history was referred from the Urology Department of our Center with a diagnosis of stage IV prostate adenocarcinoma due to multiple metastatic bone involvement and in phase IV.
In February 2004 and due to the proband syndrome (mllaquiuria and voiding urgency), a PSA determination had been performed by his Primary Care physician (PCP), which yielded a value of 12 ng.
Transrectal ultrasound and ultrasound guided prostatic biopsy were performed and reported as: bilobular adenocarcinoma, Gleason 7 (4+3).
In the extension study (analytical, MRI and bone scintigraphy), retroperitoneal lymph node metastases and multiple foci of pathological uptake (vertebral spine, neck and femoral diaphysis) were evidenced.
Complete androgen deprivation was established with a booster hormone analogue (A-LHRH) and antiandrogen.
With this treatment, PSA level returned to normal within 4 months (June 04).
The patient was receiving analgesic treatment for bone pain with NSAIs and urticaria.
He was also treated with dorsolumbar vertebral irradiation with 30 Gy administered in 10 sessions.
In April 2006, and with the asymptomatic patient, the progressive increase of PSA to 7.3, 13.1, 21 ng/ml begins, maintaining testosterone levels in castration.
It was decided, at this moment, to suspend the antiandrogen.
The biochemical response was good, with normalization occurring in August 06.
Unfortunately, in November 06 he came to the emergency department complaining of intense generalized and disabling bone pain despite the rise in doses of analgesics (SVAS=8 with Nuclear Medicine) and received treatment with Nuclear Medicine (SEM=8-9),
In addition, the clinical picture is accompanied by PSA levels of 850 ng/ml.
In December 06 we took care of patients, with their informed consent, to initiate chemotherapy with Docetaxel and prednisone.
We also started therapy with bone resorption inhibitors (zoledronic acid).
The clinical response was satisfactory with analgesic control (VAS=2-3) and PSA reduction to 150 ng/ml.
On February 15, 2007, the patient came to the emergency department complaining that for about 15 days he had noticed a protrusion of the left eyeball and difficulty in completely separating the eyelids.
Neurological manifestations Proptosis, pseudopaptosis, mydriasis low reactive secondary to the third cranial nerve involvement.
Not▁orbital murmurs.
MRI would orbit Metastatic position of the entire central segment of the cranial base, bone marrow of the▁vertebrae included in the study and part of the cranial diploe.
Affected roof and lateral wall of the left orbita that are expanded and cause proptosis of the eyeball.
The left main wing is supported and thickened, and there is a clear extension to the left nostril wall and fissure.
Similar changes are observed in the bones forming the contralateral orbita, but less advanced.
Left orbital roof injury is accompanied by a soft tissue injury that causes inferior displacement of the▁orbital muscles.
In contrast-enhanced sequences, heterogeneous uptake was identified in all the lesions described.
He received irradiation of the affected areas with palliative character and presented a clear and rapid deterioration, dying on 21-03-07.
