Patient H.V.P.D., 16 years old, presented with a chief complaint of difficulty in voiding.
During the physical examination, the patient presented high facial pattern III, with severe maxillary hypoplasia, dental crowding, class III defida relationship, anterior open bite, anterior open bite, vulture, and vulture.
Data collection during anamnesis also revealed that, at birth, the patient had a defect in the abdominal wall that was subsequently corrected.
All these findings contributed to the formation of the diagnosis of Beckwith-Wiedmann syndrome.
The patient was incorporated into the oro-surgical treatment, observing problems related to the physique, respiratory difficulties and macroglossia.
Therefore, a surgical procedure of partial glossectomy prior to the orthognathic surgery procedure was planned for this case.
The technique used was the one proposed by Obwegeser et al.
(1964)10, in which the resection of the central segment and the apex of the tongue was performed, with the speech decreasing in the anteroposterior and transversal direction, so that the problems related to it were attenuated.
For adequate control of transoperative bleeding and execution, surgery was performed under general anesthesia with orotracheal intubation due to the presence of hyperkeratosis of the turbinates that prevented passage of the probe.
To perform the incisions, cotton 2.0 thread stitches were established in the lateral and anterior extremities of the tongue and a repair pinch was used to assist in Allis type dissection.
After stabilization, the incision was made with blue methylene blue and local anesthetic (lydocaine 2% with epinephrine 1:200,000).
The removal of the segmented nerve was performed with an electrical surgical diversion (needle dissection, Stryker Corporation®) in the apex-base direction of the lingual lesions, minimizing the risk of lingual lesions.
The segment was removed and careful hemostasis was performed to minimize the risks of lingual hematoma and postoperative bleeding.
After bleeding control, the segments were approximated with a resorbable thread (Vicryl 3.0-ETHICON) from the deepest to the superficial portion in a thorough manner in the base-apex direction.
In the immediate postoperative period, it was possible to verify the anterior and transverse decrease of the tongue without airway compromise, and without any complication of hemorrhagic or infectious nature.
Ten days after surgery, the patient began speech therapy to help restore tongue motility and consolidation.
Currently, the patient is 3 years postoperatively and there is a considerable decrease in the size of the tongue in the transversal and longitudinal direction, without reports of loss of taste or taste in the region.
It is following a speech therapy and orthodontic treatment with the purpose of performing a surgical procedure for the correction of maxillomandibular discrepancy.
