An eight-year-old patient with no personal or family history of interest.
She came to the emergency room because she presented sudden coprolalia, selective memory disorder (she does not remember and confuses some names). She also presented with fever, odynophagia without fever.
There is no loss of consciousness or alteration of muscle tone or strength.
The family describes the condition as an explosive and surprising behavioral alteration.
The episode lasts a few minutes and arrives at the Emergency Room more often, although it still presents language disorders and confusion in relation to the family and the environment in which it is located.
Feeling cold and sore throat
He's upset.
No rashes were observed on physical examination; cardiopulmonary auscultation was normal.
Otorhinolaryngological diagnosis: exudation of the jaw.
Abdomen: blando, without visceromegaly.
Sensitivity, tone, strength and osteotendinous reflexes are normal.
There are no signs of neurological focality.
Blood tests were performed, showing 18 400 leukocytes (86 segmented, three cavitated, six lymphocytes, three monocytes), and 260 000 platelets.
Biochemistry showed no alterations in basic screening, C-reactive protein (CRP) 11 mg/l.
Throat swabs were collected and tested positive for Streptococcus pyogenes (group A).
The patient was admitted for observation and study of the process. Antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin was started, which ended after ten days.
Neuropsychiatric symptoms completely disappear 24 hours after admission.
Given the rapid resolution and good general condition of the child, it was decided to discharge the hospital and continue with outpatient study.
When we see him in the Primary Care clinic the patient is asymptomatic, with physical and neurological examination without alterations.
Magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalogram were requested, which were normal.
It is seen by a catarrhal process at three months, without repeating the symptoms described in the previous episode of colitis.
She remains without relapses.
The patient underwent a two-time study of recurrent infection, which was negative.
The carrier status is also ruled out, although levels of anti-streptococcal O (ASLO) antibodies have not been determined for not having presented clinical relapses.
