We report the case of a 45-year-old man who presented with bilateral ocular pain, intense photophobia and decreased visual acuity (VA).
Fifteen days before, she had been diagnosed with keratoconjunctivitis probably viral, in treatment with tobramycin eye drops (Tobrex, Alcon Cusi, Barcelona) and adenoiclorens, chlorhydrate.
Descozor, photophobia and redness of 3 months duration, concomitant with asthenia, cachexia and weight loss of 16 kilograms (kg).
The patient's personal history included chronic alcoholic pancreatitis, non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, smoking and percutaneous derivation pancreatitis performed 11 months earlier.
Amongst the antecedents, pterygium excision in the right eye associated with beta-therapy 5 years before and a posterior lamellar sclerocorneal graft due to trauma stand out.
The examination showed a 3-meter finger-count VA (dB) in the RE and perception and light in the LE.
The RE showed an intense vascular injection, microcystic epithelial edema, non-peripheral ulcerative (PUQ) superior, tyndall 4 crosses and a posterior synechiae, with relevant pressure (IOP)
OI presents a very severe injection of conjunctival, ciliary and episcleral vascularization, pannus 360o, pterygium, a central corneal ulcer with stromal necrosis, level of hiphema occupying the posterior chamber 26
Corneal sensitivity was normal in both eyes (AO).
She was admitted to hospital for study and treatment with oral prednisone 1 mg/kg/day (Dfremicin 0.5% All/4 mg Merck, Barcelona), and methotrexate alone 100 mg/kg/day (Vibracin 0.5 mg/8h), dexamethasone
Seven days later, the hyphema disappeared, with hypopyon level appearing in the left eye. Consequently, vancomycin-related drops were associated with a 50 mg/ml Lilly-mg/h (Charvest-500 mg).
A diagnostic-therapeutic DO upper conjunctival excision was performed, which ruled out vasculitic lesions or the presence of herpes simplex virus (HSV 1 and 2) by immunohistochemistry, showing an intense acanthosis.
The systemic examination ruled out any signs of rheumatic involvement, with serology of infectious diseases and negative markers of rheumatic diseases and vasculitis, except for a high C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate.
The laboratory tests showed macrocytic and hypochromic anemia, a pattern of severe lipoprotein malnutrition, hyperglycemia and elevated liver enzymes.
Pathogenic protein binding studies revealed mild malabsorption R and a decrease in fat-soluble vitamins [vitamin A: 0.24 mg/ml (binding micrograms/millilitre) (N: 0.4-albumin).
Chest X-ray, cranial and thoracic-abdominal computed tomography (CAT) were normal.
The▁orbital CT scan showed a mucosal thickening of the right maxillary sinus with normal otorhinolaryngological examination.
Ocular ultrasound ruled out vitreous-retinal involvement of the left eye.
The diagnosis of protein-calorie malnutrition with vitamin A deficiency was then reached, starting treatment with hyperproteic and hypercalorie diet without sugar, pancreatic enzymes and oral vitamins.
The evolution was favorable, with resolution of the AO picture at 2 months and a VA of 1 RE and cd at 1 m OI.
OI has a central leukoma limited inferiorly by a lipid keratopathy and posterior synechiae, which continue to prevent the OC from seeing.
