A 73-year-old patient with a history of hypertension and polyarthrosis was admitted to the emergency department due to abdominal discomfort and pain associated with constipation and fever.
The symptoms had started three weeks before and worsened during the four days prior to admission.
During this period, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy (fibroendostomates, duodenum and stomach) and cystoscopy (with this splenic angle) were performed, but no abnormalities were found.
On physical examination, the patient presented with a febricula (37.6o C), a diffusely painful abdomen and auscultation revealed a percussion. The patient was▁tympanic to percussion. There were few pulmonary butterfly decreases, but no data of percussion.
Analyses showed 8.2 x 109 leukocytes / L, hemoglobin 136 g / L, platelets 186 x 109 / L. Except blood glucose (123 mg / dl), serum creatinine phosphomillase 125 antigens calcium phosphate transhydrogenase, urine
ESR and C-reactive protein were elevated, with values of 85 mm / 1st h and 133 mg / L (normal < 5 mg / L), respectively.
Mantoux intradermal reaction (10 IU RT-23) was positive, with an induration of 25 mm.
Chest X-ray showed an image compatible with atelectasis of the right lower lobe in the context of ipsilateral pleural effusion.
There were no signs suggestive of lymphadenopathy or alterations in the cardioperipheral silhouette.
Dorsal-abdominal effusion confirmed the existence of a right pleural effusion and identified prominent degenerative changes along the lumbar spine, but, above all, erosions in the vertebral dyslexia D10 adjacent to the space.
A lumbar MRI showed hyposignal on T1-weighted sequences and hypersignal on T2-weighted sequences on these▁vertebrae and their corresponding disc, with typical morphological changes of infectious spondylodiscitisD11.
Three serial blood cultures were negative.
In the samples obtained by aspiration puncture of the D10-D11 space, chains of Gram-positive▁cocci were observed and subsequently recovered and typified as Streptococcus pneumoniae sensitive to penicillin.
Pleural fluid analysis showed pH: 7.55; leukocytes: 8.4 x 109 / L (58% neutrophils, 26%▁eosinophils, 16% lymphocytes), proteins: 48 g / L (serum protein ratio: 125 mg / dl), pleural glucose:
Both auramine-rodamine staining and culture in Löstein-Jensen medium of pleural fluid were negative and cytology did not reveal cells.
The patient was initially treated intravenously with the combination of amoxicillin + clavulanic acid (1 g / 200 mg every 8 hours).
After 21 days, the patient was orally administered (875 / 125 mg every 8 hours) until completing 6 weeks.
The evolution was favorable and the patient could start walking with dorsolumbar corset from the fourth week.
One month after the end of antibiotic therapy, a control chest CT scan still showed mild pleural effusion, but the patient only complained of low intensity mechanical back pain, the ESR had decreased to 21 mm.
Outpatient follow-up lasted three years longer, during which the evolution was favorable and a D10-D11 vertebral block was formed.
