An 89-year-old male patient with no relevant past medical history presented with anorexia for a month and a half of evolution accompanied by swelling in hands and feet.
She reported an episode of rectal bleeding.
Physical examination revealed only limited edema associated with phalangic metaphases.
With the diagnosis of suspected RS3PE, treatment with prednisone 20 mg/24 hours was initiated, and the edema completely disappeared after 5 days of treatment.
Since this syndrome may appear associated with other pathologies, the patient was studied.
In the complementary tests the hemoglobin was Hb 10.3 g/dL, with MCV 94.5.
Biochemistry glucose, urea, creatinine, calcium total, phosphate, cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, total proteins, GPT, LDH, GGT, Na, K were normal.
Cobasin and normal folates
Normal beta-2-microglobulin.
A monoclonal band of IgA lambda appeared in the proteinogram.
C-reactive protein and ESR were normal.
Interleukin 6 was normal.
HIV serology was negative.
Rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies were negative.
PSA was normal.
The HLA-B27 phenotype was positive.
Bence-Jones proteinuria was negative.
The residual urine was normal.
Radiographs of hands and feet showed no erosive lesions.
Chest CT scan of the posterior segment of the LSD revealed a pulmonary infiltrate with a branched morphology (three nonbud-like) and nodular pattern; in the LM, a nodular bisegmental pleuroparesis with a branched morphology was also observed.
Abdominal CT urinary bladder with thickening of the bladder floor, with multiple diverticula, prostatic hypertrophy.
Bronchoscopy showed a trachea and left bronchial tree with chronic inflammatory signs. The most important were diverticula and plaques anthracosis throughout the bronchial tree. At the level of the right bronchial tree LM was not taken a cold entrance bronchial biopsy because of a few mm
The cytological study of the BAS revealed an acute inflammatory smear.
Löwestein's culture of the BAS was positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
During the evolution of the patient, it was observed that 5 days after starting corticoid treatment, edema of the hands and feet disappeared, and a month later hemoglobin was normalized.
Four months after starting prednisone, Mycobacterium tuberculosis was identified and isoniazid, rifampicin and pyrazinamide were administered. Corticosteroid treatment was suspended due to the suspicion of Poncet's disease.
Three months after initiating tuberculous lesions and removing corticoids, edema reappeared in hands and feet, so corticoid treatment was reintroduced.
