An 82-year-old man presented to the emergency department complaining of dyspnea, increased sputum and somnolence.
Relevant personal history included: hypertension, diabetes mellitus, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, associated oropharyngeal radical syndrome (TSS), squamous cell carcinoma of the throat (T3N0M0 with unsuitable Secretion Syndrome).
Its usual treatment consists of 100 mg▁acetylsalicylic acid, 1 mg lorazepam, 8 mg silidosin and 20 mg▁acetylsalicylic acid, all in a single daily dose (tolvaptan suspended after last admission).
The patient was admitted with a diagnosis of bilobar pneumonia due to bronchoaspiration associated with hypoosmolar hyponatremia (sodium 101 meq/L (normal range (NR.)
135-145 meq/L), Osmolality 210 mOsm/kg (R.N.
280-300 mOsm/kg).
He had severe dysphagia and bleeding associated with pharyngeal tumor planning gastrostomy and starting parenteral nutrition through peripheral route, empirical antibiotic treatment with meropenem 1000 mg/8h and normal saline replacement with normal saline (normal saline) 500 mL 0.9% ID-42).
Upon admission to Internal Medicine, clinical and analytical improvement was observed (sodium 130 meq/L), and the Nephrology Department assessed paraneoplastic SIADH with good response to therapy that was suspended by serum.
Treatment was restarted at low doses of tolvaptan to avoid over correction (7.5 mg/24 h) and subsequently increased to usual dose of 15 mg/24 h. The patient presented fever syndrome with no clear source of vancomycin cefepidermis, initiating empirical treatment with
Transthoracic echocardiogram was performed ruling out endocarditis.
Blood cultures were negative.
Three days after starting treatment, vancomycin was increased to 1250 mg/12 h due to persistent fever peaks, CRP 9.6 mg/dL (R.N: 0.0-0.5 mg/dL) and procalcitonin (0.01 mcg/dL).
At two days new plasma concentrations are extracted, being even lower (8.4 Pharmacokinetic μg/mL) (the possibility of error in sample extraction is assessed by performing a preemptive diagnostic test for nephrotic Clostridium difficile / base excess of
Acute renal failure developed and creatinine values of 5.07 mg/dL were reached in the days after discontinuation of intravenous vancomycin.
Nine days after suspension, elimination remains very slow, with a t1/2 of 132 h and plasma concentration of 25.5 μg/mL is reached.
Concentrations below the therapeutic range are not reached within 15 days after discontinuation of antibiotic therapy.
The Nephrology Department administers enteral nutrition to prevent diarrhea, and performs natremic correction by suspending treatment with enteral nutrition, increasing the volume of mL of vancomycin and forced voiding therapy (saquinavir/day) 3000.
Vancomycin is administered by gastrostomy due to persistent Clostridium difficile diarrhea despite treatment with oral metronidazole.
Subsequently, the patient developed hypertension, with abundant diuresis and very positive free water, resulting in hypernatremia (sodium 157 meq/L) despite the suspension of tolvaptan, which is why salty sera are reduced.
She also had metabolic acidosis that was corrected with bicarbonate, and respiratory alkalosis. A chest X-ray was performed for suspected left pleural effusion.
Due to persistent high plasma concentrations of vancomycin and hypernatremia, serum therapy is readjusted and desmopressin is added.
Finally, resolution of bacteremia associated with Streptococcus epidermc methicillin-resistant bacteremia, vancomycin managed conservatively and enteral nutrition was suspended after renal therapy with vancomycin poisoning, paulatin resolution of diarrhea episode, recovery of metronidazole
