A 54-year-old male patient, smoker and moderate drinker, allergic to penicillins, with a history of maxillary sinusitis and pansinusitis.
Anterior sinus arrest was diagnosed after a biopsy of the left frontal sinus tumor in another hospital center, where surgical excision was performed through an incision at the left eye level and a wall osteotomy.
A fragment of the sinus cavity was obtained for anatomopathological analysis confirming the presence of chylotcytoma.
Histopathological analysis of the excised sinus mucosa was also performed, which was reported as a possible mucocele accurate (mucopiocele).
Subsequently, he was referred to the Hematology Department of our Hospital for treatment.
In the bone scintigraphy, pathological tracer deposition was observed in the maxillary sinus, nasal bones and frontal sinuses, suggesting the presence of myeloma.
Three cycles of chemotherapy were administered, separated by one month, consisting of: cristin, adriomycin and dexamethasone + diathesis (1st cycle); etopoxide, dexamethasone + cyclophosphamide (two cycle);
Two days after the end of the third cycle of chemotherapy, there was an increase in tumor in the frontal region, with signs of local inflammation lasting 24 hours.
Examination revealed a soft frontal tumor draining abundant purulent material through two holes in the eyebrow, with headache and fever of 38oC.
Samples were taken for culture and antibiogram (no microorganisms were isolated).
A radiolucent area was visualized in the skull X-ray at the level of the frontal bone.
CT and MRI confirmed the presence of a thickening of the frontal bone and occupation of its cavities with a lytic area on the left side suggesting osteomyelitis with frontal sequestration areas.
The patient was referred to our Maxillofacial Surgery Department and after evaluation of the patient, it was decided to perform surgical treatment.
An incision was made in the butterfly wings in the glabellar region, including the fistulous tract.
After removing the flap, the frontal sinus that had lost the external table was visualized, cleaning and curettage were performed, and the sinus walls were milled with rotating material.
A graft of 50 cc was taken.
A previously prepared corticospongypous bone fragment of the right proximal tibia was mixed with a rich concentrate of PRP growth factors.
250 cc of venous blood were extracted to prepare the PRP, which were centrifuged using a two-phase technique (Platelet Concentrate Collection System PCCS; 3i/Imachplant Innovations®, two phases),
Before application, PRP clot was activated by calcium chloride.
In total, a mixture of 40 cc of material was obtained, with which both sinus cavities were completely filled.
The surgical wound was sutured, placing poor plasma growth factors on the scar.
The curettage material of both sinus cavities was sent for pathological analysis.
The result reported the presence of mixed type inflammatory tissue with bone and soft tissue involvement, with the diagnosis of chronic osteomyelitis of the frontal sinus being ruled out with recurrence of dyscytoma.
The patient was discharged after five days of hospitalization without symptoms or postoperative complications.
There were no complications at the donor site, and the patient was able to walk at discharge without discomfort.
CT scans were performed six and twelve months after the intervention, in which a complete filling of the sinus cavity was observed, with no signs of disease.
The patient has not had swelling or suppuration back in the forehead, headaches or fever.
The aesthetic appearance of the surgical wound is very satisfactory.
