A 59-year-old man with a history of chronic alcoholism and smoking habit of years of evolution, who had presented an episode of upper digestive complications secondary to analgesics gastrointestinal bleeding as a complication.
As urological antecedents a proband syndrome two years of evolution without secondary complications.
She came to the emergency department with intermittent febrile syndrome of four days duration, associated with urinary incontinence in the last 48 hours, along with dysuria and sacral pain radiating to both lower limbs and worsening with movements.
Rectal tenesmus of recent onset is also associated.
Upon arrival to the emergency department, the patient had fever of up to 39oC, was hemodynamically stable, confused, with a mild, sweating sound.
On physical examination, the abdomen was glossal, blade and depressible, non-peritonitic.
Painful to palpation in bilateral lumbar area at L5-S1 level, as well as in hypogastric area and perineal region.
No bladder balloon impressive.
Genital examination is normal, and the rectal examination volume I adenomatous, slightly painful.
Neurological examination showed decreased strength in both lower limbs in their upper third and sensitivity was preserved.
Patellar reflexes and aquile are present.
The patient presented with blood count and biochemical laboratory tests: hemoglobin 14.2 g/dl, hematocrit 411 mEq/5%, Leucocytes 20.300 (Neutrophils 72.9%), Creatinine 212 mg
Urine analysis showed negative leukocytes, negative nitrites and normal sediment.
The analysis was completed with a coagulation study that determined prothrombin activity of 83%, a cefalin time of 27.2 sg, and fibrinogen of 574 mg/dl.
An emergency computed tomography scan (CT) scan of the pelvis showed multiple simple cysts in the kidneys and left kidney stones.
No dilation of the urinary tract.
Increase in size prostate gland, hypodense lesions in both side lobes of 3.3 cm and 3 cm compatible with pros abscess.
The patient was then treated with ceftriaxone 1 g/12 h, ampicillin 1 gh and Gentamicin 240 mg/24 h. The diagnosis of abscess colectomized was established with endoscopic ultrasound guidance for bladder cancer.
In the operating room, a lumbar puncture was performed prior to the intradural anesthesia.
A turbio-amillent cerebrospinal fluid outflow was observed and a sample was sent to microbiology and biochemistry; 1070 leukocytes (polymorphonuclear leukocytes) were isolated.
On the other hand, the diagnosis of abscess pros is confirmed by ECTR, in which there is evidence of the consolidation of 30ces and 28 mm that affect the left lobe and the right lobe respectively, with the rest of the prostate being heterogeneous.
We evacuated 10 cc of pus from the median drainage of cysts using a perineal drainage catheter.
Urine was removed by suprapubic cystostomy.
From the culture of the samples (prostatic and lumbar puncture) S. aureus oxycilin sensitive was isolated and we started treatment with Cloxacillin 2 g/24 and Rifampicin 300 mg/12 urgent lumbar symptoms.
Subsequent follow-up based on new RCTs shows a clear improvement, although it is necessary to again drain a hyperechoic area in the right prosecutive lobe, 4 cc of purulent material is evacuated.
Subsequent controls did not reveal new areas of bullying.
A transesophageal ultrasound was also performed, ruling out secondary endocarditis and a new control lumbar MRI after six weeks of antibiotic treatment, which showed complete resolution of the subdural empyema.
