The patient was a 27-year-old male who had suffered a pneumonia while he was a child and was not a smoker, and did not have an ethylic habit.
He was diagnosed with extrinsic bronchial asthma and allergic rhinoconjunctivitis with hypersensitivity to grasses and olives.
Nickets of inhaled corticosteroids were sporadic.
After a major physical effort (going from the shore in a procession during local holidays and sleeping very little) in the summer of 2003, he started with pain in the right upper limb irradiating to the right hemithorax.
After that, he developed fever and dysneic sensation, so he came to the hospital emergency department.
On clinical examination at admission, a poor general condition was found, as well as a centric phase lesion on the abdominal wall, which could correspond to a forum.
The vesicular murmur was diminished at the right base.
Cardiac and neurological examinations were normal.
There were no organomegaly.
The patient presented leukocytosis (from 12,000 /mm côté to 18,700/mm côté), with neutrophilia, the rest of the parameters being considered to have normal limits.
No.
Creatinine increased during admission to 1.6 mg/dl and urea to 61 mg/dl Other biochemical values were: total bilirubin: 2.19 mg/dl, direct fraction: 1.33 mg/dl alkaline phosphatase: 687 IU/dl
The sedimentation rate was 71 mm in the first hour.
Serology for HIV and hepatitis B and C virus were negative.
Serial hemocultives were performed and were positive for Staphylococcus aureusmethicill sensitive.
Transthoracic echocardiography showed normal images without pericardial effusion.
Ten days after admission, the patient had an erythematous, warm lesion in the right side of the face that disappeared into the digitopressure and was about 5 x 5 cm in diameter.
Liquid was aspirated from the lesion and culture was also positive for methicillin sensitive S. aureus.
Abdominal ultrasound was normal.
The chest CT scan showed a left pleural effusion with interstitial prominence.
Three small nodular images were observed in the right upper lobe, left upper lobe and another one of subpleural location of less than one centimeter size compatible with small staphylococcal abscesses Fig.
1).
Abdominal CT was normal, with no lymphadenopathy or fluid in the free cavity.
Bone scintigraphy showed intensely increased osteogenic activity at the level of the joint consistent with arthritis at this level.
A MRI of the sternum was performed.
There was gadolinium in the manubrium joint with the body extended to half of the manubrium and the proximal third of the body adjacent to both capture and subsequent uptake bl tissue enlargement.
These findings were compatible with arthritis at this level and very suggestive of osteomyelitis.
There were no signs of bone destruction.
The clinical course was good with antibiotic treatment consisting of intravenous cloxacillin (IV) for 15 days at a dose of 2 g/ 6 hours and IV gentamicin for 7 days at a dose of 5 mg/kg/24 hours.
None of the patients required intensive care.
Subsequently, the patient was treated with oral rifampicin (doses of 600 mg/24 h) and levofloxacin (doses of 500 mg every 24 h) for two months.
The dermal lesion resolved five weeks later.
To rule out the existence of a primary immunodeficiency, a screening was performed with the following results: complement levels, lymphocyte subpopulations and markers, oxidative capacity of granulocyte expression and▁lymphocytic function markers.
▁Protective levels for specific IgG against tetanus toxoid, Haemophilus▁polysaccharide
Slightly high levels of IgE and IgG4 were normal in the rest of immunoglobulins and IgG subunit (IgE = 170 IU/l, normal range: 0-100 IU/l; Ig normal G4 = 3.400 mg).
Isoglutinins titers could not be evaluated due to lack of samples.
This study was carried out with the patient being discharged and two months after the onset of the disease.
