We report the case of a physician specialized in microbiology, with many years of experience, who performs a microbiological test for Mycobacterium tuberculosis using the lateral agar culture method isolated from a patient with a pure Mycobacterium tuberculosis facet.
At the time of inoculation, he immediately treated the wound (washed with water and soap), later complaining to the Occupational Risk Service (SPRL), where the accident was registered.
The SPRL reviews the medical-laboral history of the injured worker and it is observed as data of interest that has a previous positive Mantoux; requests laboratory tests and serology for hepatitis C virus, HIV and other positive symptoms.
At three weeks, an erythematous▁papule, slightly painful to pressure, growing up to 1.5-2 cm in size, without axillary lymphadenopathy, or general clinical signs, appears at the site of inoculation.
Image 3.
Biopsy of the lesion When observing the worker that the lesion does not improve, she informally consults the Plastic Surgery Service, from this Service a biopsy and excision of the lesion is requested.
The pathological results were granulomatous dermatitis with occasional necrosis, highly suggestive of tuberculous dermatitis.
(Imagen 4) Image 4.
Pathology: granulomatous dermatitis suggestive of tuberculous dermatitis.
Microbiological study revealed two acid-alcohol resistant bacilli, and when cultured in BEC MGIT 960, growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis was confirmed.
Subsequently, both isolates (from source and injured worker) were studied by MIRU (Mycobacterial interspersed repetitive units) confirming the identity of both strains.
(Imagen 5) Image 5.
Microbiological study confirmed the diagnosis of cutaneous tuberculosis and was referred to the worker in the Internal Medicine Service, where after that she started anti-tuberty treatment with rifampicin 600 mgr., 250 mgr.
Isoniazid and 1500 mgr.
Fasting pyrazinamide for two months continued for four months with rifampicin 600 mg and isoniazid 300 mg daily.
From this service, the patient is also monitored with monthly blood tests in which no changes are detected, good tolerance to medication is observed, and is discharged 7 months after the beginning of treatment.
The SPRL reports occupational disease according to RD 1299/2006 of November 10, which approves the framework of occupational diseases in the Social Security system and establishes criteria for its notification and registration.
