On 21 January 2020, a 47-year-old man was admitted to Wuwei People's Hospital with fever without focus and cough of 7 days' duration. The patient reported fever (up to a maximum of 39.3°C), productive cough with white sputum, nasal congestion, rhinorrhoea, dizziness, fatigue, chest tightness and nausea, but no chest pain, sore throat or respiratory problems. He reported that he had arrived in Wuwei City by car on 18 January from Wuhan. The patient had a history of grade 2 hypertension and type 2 diabetes and had been a smoker since the age of 27; he reported no history of alcoholism. Nasopharyngeal swabs were taken on 23, 29 and 30 January, according to CDC guidelines. A nasopharyngeal swab was inserted into the nostrils, rotated over the nasopharyngeal mucosa for 10 to 15 seconds and then removed and inserted into a sterile tube with a viral transport medium. Samples were analysed by RT-PCR. Three target genes were detected: RdRP, E and N. Positive expression (CT value ≤ 43) of all three genes, RdRP and E genes or RdRP and N genes conclusively identifies SARS-CoV-2. Other tests were also performed. The study was authorised by the ethics committee of the First Associated Hospital of Wanan Medical School, observing the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Informed consent was obtained from the patient to use his or her medical records in this study. 

Based on the analytical tests, chest X-ray, clinical and epidemiological information, the patient was treated with interferon α and methylprednisolone. However, due to the sudden worsening of clinical symptoms, such as expiratory dyspnoea, feeding deficiency and lethargy, the patient was transferred to the First Associate Hospital of Wanan Medical School (Wuhu, China) on 23 January. The analytical tests are shown in table 1 (day 0). The results indicated that the patient had stable vital signs, reduced lymphocyte values, high C-reactive protein values and moderately high values of fibrinogen, neutrophils and lactate dehydrogenase. A CT scan of the lungs showed several scattered high-density shadows distributed mainly at the margins of the lungs, changes consistent with the observation of bronchogram or ground-glass opacity changes, as well as mild pleural thickening. Polytherapy with lopinavir and ritonavir tablets (800/200 mg per day), methylprednisolone (40 mg per day), recombinant human interferon α-2b (10 million IU per day), ambroxol hydrochloride (60 mg per day) and moxifloxacin hydrochloride (0.4 g per day) was initiated to inhibit viral shedding, relieve asthma, clear phlegm and provide empirical antibiotic treatment. In addition, high-flow oxygen inhalation therapy with humidification was used to prevent acute respiratory failure. Treatment for blood glucose and blood pressure control and rehydration therapy were also applied. On the second day of treatment, the patient presented with intermittent febrile fever (ranging from 36.0°C to 37.2°C). With the exception of occasional chest tightness and dyspnoea, improvement of the other symptoms, such as productive cough with white sputum, nasal congestion, rhinorrhoea, dizziness and fatigue, was observed. On the third day of treatment, methylprednisolone was reduced to 20 mg per day and on the fifth day it was completely withdrawn. In addition, on the eighth day of treatment, oxygen therapy was withdrawn, due to the clear improvement in respiratory capacity. Based on persistent negative SARS-CoV-2 results on days 6 and 7, as well as partial clearance of lung lesions (figure S1b), the patient was discharged on day 10. During treatment, the patient's temperature, pulse and respiratory rate showed mild fluctuations (figure S1c) and analytical tests showed improvement, especially in the lymphocyte count.

