On 21 January 2020, a 50-year-old man presented to an infectious disease clinic with symptoms of fever, chills, fatigue and dyspnoea. He reported a trip to Wuhan on 8-12 January and reported initial symptoms of mild chills and dry cough on 14 January (day 1 of illness), but did not attend the clinic and continued to work until 21 January. Chest CT showed multiple patchy shadows in both lungs and a pharyngeal smear was performed. On 22 January (sick day 9), the Beijing Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) confirmed by real-time RT-PCR that the patient had COVID-19.


He was immediately admitted to the infectious disease ward and received oxygen therapy by mask. He was given interferon alfa-2b (5 million units twice daily, atomised by inhalation) and lopinavir and ritonavir (500 mg twice daily, orally) as antiviral therapy and moxifloxacin (0.4 g once daily, i.v.) to prevent superinfection. In view of severe dyspnoea and hypoxaemia, methylprednisolone (80 mg twice daily i.v.) was administered to attenuate inflammation in the lungs. After receiving the medication, his temperature dropped from 39.0°C to 36.4°C; however, the symptoms of cough, dyspnoea and fatigue did not improve. On day 12 of illness, after the initial consultation, a chest CT scan showed diffuse infiltrates and shadows in both lungs. The patient repeatedly refused the ventilator in the ICU, because he was claustrophobic; therefore, he was given oxygen therapy via a high-flow nasal cannula (concentration 60%, flow rate 40 L/min). On sick day 13, the patient's symptoms still did not improve, but oxygen saturation remained above 95%. On the afternoon of sick day 14, his hypoxaemia and dyspnoea worsened. Despite receiving oxygen therapy (100% concentration, flow rate 40 L/min), the oxygen saturation decreased to 60% and the patient went into sudden cardiac arrest. Immediately, invasive ventilation and cardiac massage were applied and adrenaline was injected. Unfortunately, resuscitation was unsuccessful and the patient died at 18:31 (Beijing time).


Biopsies were taken from the patient's lungs, liver and heart. Histological examination showed bilateral diffuse alveolar damage with cellular fibromyxoid exudates. The right lung showed clear pneumocyte desquamation and hyaline membrane formation, indicating acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). The left lung tissue showed pulmonary oedema with hyaline membrane formation, indicative of initial ARDS. Mononuclear interstitial inflammatory infiltrates, dominated by lymphocytes, were observed in both lungs. Multinucleated syncytial cells with hypertrophied atypical pneumocytes characterised by large nuclei, amphophilic granular cytoplasm and prominent nucleoli in the intra-alveolar spaces, indicative of cytopathic viral changes, were identified. No obvious viral inclusions, either intranuclear or intracytoplasmic, were identified.
