The mother of the neonatal patient is a 34-year-old pregnant woman who lives near the Huanan wholesale seafood market (about 1.2 km away) in Wuhan. She has not visited the market during her pregnancy and her family has no confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19, but more than 15 people have been diagnosed in the same community where she lives. She has a history of hypothyroidism for 4 years and has been treated with oral medication; she has no history of hypertension, diabetes or heart disease. She had a miscarriage in 2016 due to chromosomal abnormalities. She is allergic to penicillin and first generation cephalosporins (positive in skin tests).

At 20:00 h on 1 February 2020, the woman, 40 weeks' gestation, presented with a small vaginal haemorrhage and pain in the lower abdominal region. Two hours later, she developed a fever (37.8°C) and went to the Wuhan Mother and Child Care Centre. As she had a fever, she was referred to the infectious diseases clinic of Wuhan Tongji Hospital the next morning. A chest CT scan showed ground-glass opacities in the left upper and lower lobes, indicating the possibility of viral pneumonia.

Chest CT scan of the mother, obtained on 2 February 2020, showing signs of infection in the left upper and lower lobes and indicating the possibility of viral pneumonia, with reduced emphysema in the right lower lobe and minor involvement in the right middle lobe.

Blood tests showed lymphocytopenia (0.97 × 109 cells/L [normal: 1.1-3.2 × 109 cells/L]), neutrophilia (9.97 × 109 cells/L [normal: 1.8-6.3 × 109 cells/L]) and high C-reactive protein levels (11.5 mg/L [normal: < 1 mg/L]). It was decided to hospitalise her for suspected viral pneumonia.

On admission, her temperature was 37.8°C, blood pressure 131/89 mmHg, respiratory rate 20 bpm, and pulse 96 bpm. Fetal pulse was 136 l.p.m. and her registration showed no abnormalities. An emergency caesarean section was performed. Intraoperatively amniotic fluid with meconium was observed. At 8:45 the patient gave birth to a boy weighing 3025g. Apgar scores at 1 and 5 minutes were 8 and 9, respectively. The baby did not regurgitate after delivery. The skin was reddish and the cry was loud. The mother wore an N95 mask during the procedure and after delivery the infant had no contact with the mother. The infant was transferred to the neonatal ward 10 minutes after delivery for close monitoring; the mother was transferred to the infectious disease ward for isolation after the operation.

Half an hour after delivery, the infant vomited once after being fed formula, and was considered to have dysphagia. After gastric lavage, the infant was able to be fed without complications. Blood tests of the newborn showed lymphocytopenia (2.43 × 109 cells/L [normal: 3-8 × 109 cells/L]), altered liver function tests (aspartate aminotransferase 143 U/L [normal: ≤ 41 U/L]; total bilirubin 33.0 μmol/L [normal: ≤ 26 μmol/L]; indirect bilirubin 26.0 μmol/L [normal: ≤ 16.8 μmol/L]) and high creatine kinase concentration (479 U/L [normal: ≤ 41 U/L]). Penicillin G (150,000 U once daily, i.v. bolus) and vitamin K1 (1 mg once daily, i.v.) were administered as antibiotic prophylaxis and to prevent coagulopathy, respectively.

The mother remained in good condition and afebrile during the immediate postoperative period. She had no cough or other complaints such as diarrhoea, nausea or vomiting. Her vital signs were stable, with an oxygen saturation of 99%. Antiviral treatment was administered, with 40 μg of recombinant human interferon α1b atomised inhalation with 2 mL of sterilisation solution twice daily and ganciclovir (0.25 g every 12 hours, i.v.). She was also given abipenem (0.3 g every 12 hours, i.v.) and moxifloxacin (0.4 g once daily, i.v.) to prevent infection. The mother had intermittent fever during the first postoperative day, reaching 38.3°C; she was given methylprednisolone (20 mg i.v.). Her pharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 was positive on the same day. Immediately, a pharyngeal swab was obtained from the newborn (36 hours postpartum) together with the mother's milk. We advised the mother not to breastfeed the infant and to express milk to avoid mastitis.

The neurological response of the newborn was acceptable during the first day after delivery and his oxygen saturation remained > 92% without oxygen therapy. The infant's laboratory tests were negative for Legionella pneumophila, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Rickettsia, adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, influenza A virus, influenza B virus and parainfluenza virus 1-3.

On 4 February, the second postoperative day, the mother's vital signs were stable and she was given prednisolone (40 mg once daily i.v.). The newborn remained healthy and his blood gas showed pH of 7.476↑, carbon dioxide partial pressure of 28.2 mm Hg↓, oxygen partial pressure of 116.0 mm Hg↑, bicarbonate of 20.6 mmol/L↓, base excess of 1.30 mmol/L and peripheral oxygen saturation of 98.4%. Testing for a set of paediatric viruses was negative for cytomegalovirus, rubella virus, Toxoplasma gondii, common herpes virus types 1 and 2, echovirus, parvovirus B19, Epstein-Barr virus, Coxsackie A16 virus, Coxsackie B virus, measles virus and varicella zoster virus. Chest CT of the newborn showed thickening of the lung texture without cardiac abnormalities. Thoracic CT scan of the newborn, obtained on 4 February 2020, showing thickening of the texture of the lungs without cardiac abnormalities. The infant was fed formula, 25 mL every 3 hours, and closely monitored.

On 5 February, the newborn's vital signs were stable, with oxygen saturation above 90% and no discomfort such as apnoea or vomiting. The pharyngeal swab result for SARS-CoV-2 was positive 36 hours after delivery. Combining all analytical tests and a thorough brainstorming, we diagnosed the child as having SARS-CoV-2 infection. As the neonatal department of Tingji Hospital does not have isolation conditions for the newborn, he was transferred to Wuhan Maternity and Children's Hospital on the same day for better isolation. After finding evidence of neonatal infection, we tested for SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid in the umbilical cord blood and placenta samples that we had kept during the procedure; the results were negative. The breast milk sample was also negative for SARS-CoV-2.

We followed up the newborn's condition after transfer to Wuhan Maternity and Children's Hospital. His condition was good and afebrile, with no coughing or vomiting. He was closely monitored in isolation and no special treatment was administered. A chest CT scan on 6 February showed high-density nodular shadows under the pleura of the posterior segment of the upper lobe of the right lung. A chest CT scan on 12 February showed small patchy shadow cores in the lower and upper lobes of the right lung. A CT scan of the chest on 17 February showed a few small patchy shadow cores in the lower and upper lobes of the right lung, absorbed in comparison to the previous ones. On 17 February 2020, nucleic acid testing of pharyngeal and anal swabs for SARS-CoV-2 was negative. The newborn was discharged on 18 February 2020.

