A 52-year-old man presented to our emergency department reporting fever, cough, asthenia, headache, myalgia and photophobia for a week. He stated that he had not travelled in recent months, but reported contacts with several Chinese (none of them with a history of nCoV-19 infection) and Italian persons from the city of Bergamo (northern Italy), currently considered a high-risk area for nCoV-19 infections by the Italian Ministry of Health.
His oxygen saturation on room air was 90% and low-flow oxygen therapy was started. On examination, the patient appeared ill and dyspnoeic; auscultation revealed bilateral crackles. The rest of the examination was unremarkable. Laboratory tests showed lymphocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, high LDH values and inflammatory markers. Blood cultures were performed and antibiotic treatment was started. A chest X-ray showed a possible left perihilar condensation. A lung ultrasound was also performed. Following these interventions, a smear test for respiratory viruses and nCoV-19 was performed; the result was positive for nCoV-19. 
Lung ultrasound was performed with a portable convex transducer (3.5 mHz) with wireless connection to a tablet. This device was chosen because, although it provides poor quality images compared to state-of-the-art devices, it minimised the risk of device contamination and the consequent spread of nosocomial infections. Two operators, an emergency physician (operator 1) and an emergency nurse (operator 2), entered the isolation room respecting all precautionary measures for respiratory, droplet and contact isolation established by the World Health Organisation for the nCoV-19 outbreak. The transducer and tablet were placed in two different plastic cases. Operator 1 performed the lung ultrasound using the wireless transducer and consequently came into contact with the patient. Operator 2 held the tablet and was responsible for capturing and saving the images and videos; consequently he did not come into contact with the patient or any other object in the room. The protocol was shared and accepted by both operators before entering the room, to minimise the risk of contamination in a high-risk environment. At the end of the procedure, the tablet and transducer were sterilised in a designated area and then placed in two new sterile plastic bags. 
The chest was scanned in the following 12 areas: upper and lower anterior, upper and lower lateral, upper and lower posterior, bilaterally. Informed consent was obtained. In our institution, the use of lung ultrasound is routinely included in the care of patients with respiratory conditions and is authorised by the ethics committee. Lung ultrasound showed, in the anterior and posterior hemithorax, bilaterally, an irregular pleural line, with small subpleural consolidations, areas of white lung and irregular, confluent, coarse vertical artefacts (B lines). Healthy areas were present bilaterally, mixed with pathological areas. 


