A 59-year-old man was admitted to hospital with outpatient SARS-CoV-2 infection confirmed by positive RT-PCR from pharyngeal swab and relevant clinical symptoms. The patient had previously visited South Tyrol. Six days before hospital admission, the patient showed initial symptoms in the form of chills and fever. He had no previous history.
On admission, he presented hyperthermia of 40.0 °C and patent tachypnoea with a respiratory rate of 28 r.p.m. with sufficient oxygenation (ambient air saturation 95%). Clinically, he reported a strong feeling of general malaise with obvious fatigue. Laboratory tests showed leukocytopenia with 3.8 × 109/l, lymphocytopenia with 0.96 × 109/l (25 %), a slightly increased C-reactive protein with 14.7 mg/l and a low procalcitonin value of 0.11 ng/ml. D-dimer, as a risk factor for instability, did not show high values at 370 μg. Interleukin-6 as an inflammatory parameter was somewhat elevated, with a concentration of 36.4 pg/ml, LDH was 330 U/l and creatine kinase 412 U/l. Albumin was initially within the normal range at 4.0 g/dl.
Thin-slice chest CT performed on the day of admission showed bilateral, multifocal ground-glass opacities, partly overlapping with reticulations in a cobblestone pattern. Consolidation was present, but much less prominent than the ground glass opacities, which were roughly rounded and geographically distributed. Notably, in some cases, they were clearly demarcated from healthy lung parenchyma. A positive air bronchogram was evident in the changes. All abnormalities were located in the periphery of the lungs, in the plane craniocaudal to the base of the lungs; the left lower lobe was the most affected.
Because of the combination of risks with clinically significant involvement, high fever, respiratory dysfunction and morphologically clear parenchymal changes on CT, antiviral therapy (lopinavir-ritonavir) and broad-spectrum antibiotics were quickly decided upon. Due to persistent fever up to 39.6°C and worsening respiratory symptoms with increased oxygen demand, a follow-up chest CT scan was performed on day 6 after admission (fig. 2). The images showed a clear decrease in densities, but in contrast to the initial CT, consolidations dominated the image. The periphery and base of the lungs remained the most affected areas. On day 7, high-flow nasal oxygen therapy was started for severe respiratory failure. On day 16, the patient had clinically improved and was ready for discharge. No further follow-up CT scans were performed.

