Our patient is a 56-year-old man with end-stage renal failure secondary to IgA nephropathy, confirmed by biopsy, on haemodialysis since the end of 2016. He has coronary artery disease with ischaemic cardiomyopathy and underwent percutaneous coronary intervention on the right coronary and anterior interventricular arteries shortly after the start of dialysis. He had an improvement in his cardiac ejection fraction from 44% in 2016 to 52% under optimal medical therapy. He started treatment with losartan 25 mg per day when diagnosed with ischaemic cardiomyopathy, which was then increased to the maximum tolerated dose of 100 mg per day about 12 months prior to this admission. The patient is a practising professional and complies with the prescribed medication and treatments. Until this time, he was on the lists for renal transplantation.

The patient had recently travelled to South Korea in early January 2020 and had returned to the United States in late January, but before the COVID-19 outbreak was identified in Daegu, South Korea. As of early March 2020, he was in good health with no relevant symptoms.

Five days prior to his admission, he presented to an emergency clinic with nausea, vomiting, intestinal colic and symptoms of fever; of note, he reported no respiratory complaints. He was diagnosed with viral gastroenteritis, given recommendations for symptom management and discharged. That same afternoon he attended our emergency department with the same symptoms. He presented with a fever of 37.8째C and his laboratory tests, including electrolytes, liver function tests, lactic acid and haemogram, were unremarkable. His chest X-ray at that time showed no significant focal consolidations, but there were mild patchy interstitial plots in the bilateral lung bases, indicative of possible atelectasis. His nausea subsided while in the ED and his symptoms were again attributed to viral gastroenteritis caused by "bad sushi" he had eaten the previous day. After discharge from the emergency department, he went home and reported that he was feeling better, except for mild diarrhoea.

Two days later he attended his usual outpatient haemodialysis treatment, where he reported feeling better since discharge from the ED, but still had intermittent diarrhoea, about twice a day. At that time he reported no cough or respiratory symptoms. At the end of dialysis, he had a fever of 38째C and blood cultures were taken which showed no bacterial growth. That same morning, after dialysis, he went to the cardiology office for a scheduled appointment, where he was observed coughing in the waiting room and was given strict precautionary recommendations considering his intention to travel for essential reasons.

The next day, the patient travelled on a commercial airline from Southern California to Utah, where he attended an emergency department with repeated intermittent vomiting and fever, but now also reported mild congestion and cough. A new chest x-ray showed "mild interstitial prominences and vague infiltrates at the base of the right lung". His flu tests were negative and he was prescribed azithromycin, based on the radiological findings. The next day he attended his scheduled haemodialysis session as a transient visitor at a local Utah dialysis centre, where he reported fever and general malaise, but was anxious to return to California because of his condition. He returned to Southern California that same afternoon on a commercial airline, ahead of schedule, because he was feeling quite ill, with ongoing fever and gastrointestinal symptoms. In addition, his respiratory symptoms, which were initially minimal, had progressed rapidly and his dyspnoea was increasing.

Shortly after returning to Southern California, he came to our emergency department for re-evaluation. In the ED, a new chest X-ray showed subtle patchy opacities in both lungs, new onset from the images 5 days earlier. A chest CT scan showed patchy, multifocal, bilateral ground-glass opacities, predominantly with peripheral distribution, raising suspicion of atypical pneumonia and possible viral infection. A COVID-19 test was performed, the result of which would take 48 hours, along with the usual biochemical and haematological tests, which revealed no abnormalities, except for a high procalcitonin value. An evaluation for other causes of atypical pneumonia was sent simultaneously, with no further results to date.

Imaging showed an evolution of interstitial pneumonitis due to COVID-19, with subsequent ARDS. The sequence of thoracic radiographs with increasing patchy opacities in both lungs is consistent with the evolution of the infectious process. A thoracic CT scan showed new patchy, multifocal, bilateral ground-glass opacities with mainly peripheral distribution. Centrilobular and bibasal septal thickening was seen. There was no pleural effusion or pneumothorax. Small biapical subpleural bullae and mild pulmonary emphysema were observed in the upper lobes. There was no evidence of atelectasis. These findings are more consistent with atypical pneumonia, which may be secondary to superinfection. The differential diagnosis includes pulmonary oedema.

The patient was admitted to the hospital with droplet and eye precautions in mind. Initially, he was noted to have a temperature of 38.1째C, but otherwise normal vitals. Antimicrobial therapy with ceftriaxone and azithromycin was started. For the next 24 h he remained febrile, with a temperature up to 38.3 째C, and a rapidly deteriorating respiratory status. Repeated chest X-rays showed evolving bilateral multifocal opacities consistent with atypical pneumonia and pulmonary oedema was suspected. He underwent dialysis on the evening of the second day of hospitalisation, but tolerated the treatment poorly, suffering from atrial fibrillation with high ventricular rate, despite minimal ultrafiltration. His respiratory condition worsened rapidly during the night and he had to be intubated and transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) with acute hypoxic respiratory failure and shock. His pulmonary status continued to deteriorate to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and the patient required mechanical ventilation with high positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP > 10 cm and FiO2 > 60%) as well as vasopressors. To maintain close control of his blood volume and metabolic parameters, continuous venovenous haemodiafiltration was applied. In view of ARDS, he was not considered a candidate for a remdesivir compassionate use trial, so treatment was started with hydroxychloroquine; on day 6 of hospitalisation, tocilizumab was administered in view of his haemodynamic instability with high values of inflammatory markers, including interleukin (IL)-6. With the impossibility of ruling out superimposed infection, he was also given broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment with vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam from day 6 of hospitalisation. His evolution is being closely monitored by a multidisciplinary team and, depending on his development, he may require paralysis as well as more aggressive pulmonary and haemodynamic support with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and prone position. At present, his vasopressure requirements remain variable, as does his PaO2/FiO2 ratio; he has remained in critical condition for the past 5 days. 


