
   A 43-year-old Caucasian man with no previous illness presented to the infectious diseases clinic on 20 March 2020 with fever up to 39.5 oC, general malaise and non-productive cough of 6 days' evolution. 
   The patient was in good general health. Physical examination, except for a sore throat, revealed no abnormalities. Laboratory tests showed the following results: mild leukocytopenia (white blood cell count: 3.57 x 103/μL, normal range: 4.0-10.0), thrombocytopenia (thrombocyte count: 107 x 103/μL, normal range: 150-420), high C-reactive protein (113 mg/L, normal range: < 6). A rapid influenza smear was negative. A nasopharyngeal swab was obtained for genetic testing for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The patient was discharged and advised to self-confine at home. The following day, the laboratory confirmed positive for COVID-19. 
 Two days after discharge, the patient returned to the hospital with dyspnoea. Laboratory tests showed an increased C-reactive protein up to 250 mg/L, a normal white blood cell count of 8.26 x 103/μL and lymphocytopenia of 0.7 x 103/μL (normal range: 1.0-4.0 x 103/μL). The patient had the following vital signs: SpO2 94%, blood pressure 80/60, temperature 37.1 oC. 
 Chest X-ray showed bilateral ground-glass opacities in the lower lobes and focal consolidation in the left lung. The patient was admitted to the infectious diseases ward. 
Treatment was started with chloroquine (1.0 g per day in two doses orally), antibiotics (ceftriaxone 2.0 g per day i.v. and clarithromycin 1.0 g per day in two doses orally), oxygen (mask) and saline i.v. Signs of respiratory failure appeared on day 23. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) where he was placed on positive bipressure mechanical ventilation (BPAP) and given i.v. norepinephrine because of the circulatory failure that appeared the following day. Blood cultures and urine and sputum cultures were negative. Another chest X-ray showed development of ground-glass opacities and focal consolidations, mainly in the left lung. In the following days, despite a decrease in inflammatory markers, the clinical status remained unchanged. The patient is still hospitalised in the ICU. 
   Ground-glass opacities and focal consolidations (mostly in the peripheral and subpleural regions of the lower zones) on chest radiographs observed in this patient are the most common radiological findings in patients with COVID-19. In our patient, clinical worsening was observed 6 days after symptom onset, he was admitted after 9 days and was transferred to the ICU after 10 days, which is in line with previous findings that disease progression usually occurs 1-2 weeks after symptom onset. 


