The patient is a 6-month-old girl, born at term, previously healthy and with a complete vaccination schedule, who was brought to the paediatric emergency department with fever, dizziness and refusal of breastfeeding of one day's duration. She had no cough, congestion or rhinorrhoea. Examination showed a girl with dizziness, a temperature of 38.8°C and no focal signs of infection. Laboratory tests included a rapid influenza smear and a catheter-based urinalysis; all results were negative. He was diagnosed with a viral infection. On day 2 of fever, he presented with a rash with erythematous patches, apparently non-pruritic. He returned to the emergency department on day 4 of fever with persistent exanthema. Although he still had no cough, he appeared to have mild congestion. Vital signs were: temperature 38.3°C, sinus tachycardia (200 bpm) and tachypnoea with an oxygen saturation of 100%. Examination revealed irritability, conjunctivitis without limbal involvement and dry, cracked lips. There was no lymphadenopathy and the extremities were normal. There was mild subcostal retraction, but respiratory sounds were normal. Laboratory tests revealed leukocytosis with left shift, normocytic anaemia, normal thrombocytes, clearly elevated C-reactive protein (13.3 mg/dL) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate 118 mm/h. He had hyponatraemia (sodium 133 mEq/L) and hypoalbuminaemia (albumin 2.8 g/dL), with all other values normal, including liver function tests. Respiratory pathogen testing by RT-PCR and blood cultures were negative. A chest X-ray showed a mild opacity in the left medial area. During this period of illness she had no contact with other sick people. His 9-year-old brother had had upper respiratory tract respiratory symptoms 3 weeks earlier. The family had been self-confined because of the COVID-19 pandemic for the previous week, not going out for school or work. There was no history of recent travel. 
The patient was referred for admission and evaluation for possible Kawasaki. Given her fever, possible mild congestion and radiological findings, she was transferred to the emergency department for COVID-19 testing prior to admission to the paediatric ward. On admission, the patient had a 5-day fever, conjunctivitis without limbal involvement, prominent taste buds, polymorphic pale maculopapular exanthema and swelling of the hands and lower extremities, manifestations consistent with classic Kawasaki disease criteria. He was treated with a single dose of 2 g/kg i.v. immunoglobulin and a high dose of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA 20 mg/kg four times daily) according to the treatment protocol. His last temperature just after completing the administration of IV IG was 38.3°C. An echocardiogram was normal, with no evidence of coronary dilatation or aneurysm or pericardial effusion, and normal valvular and ventricular activity. 
The night before discharge, the RT-PCR test for COVID-19 was positive, performed at the Stanford Clinical Virology Laboratory. The public health department was notified and the family was instructed to quarantine for 14 days from the date of the positive test. The patient was discharged on low-dose ASA (3 mg/kg per day) and followed by the paediatric cardiology service for echocardiographic evaluation two weeks after discharge, scheduled after the mandatory 14-day quarantine.

