A 69-year-old patient attended the emergency department of the main hospital of a town in the "red zone" in Lombardy (Italy). He reported worsening dyspnoea, persistent cough and weakness, of four days' evolution. A chest CT scan showed diffuse bilateral interstitial inflammation with subpleural consolidations. Nasopharyngeal swab was positive for COVID-19 by real-time RT-PCR assay. Laboratory tests showed high inflammatory markers and lymphocytopenia (white blood cell count 23080/mm3, neutrophils 91.4%, lymphocytes 1.4%, C-reactive protein 52.7 mg/L) and increased hs-TnI (4332 ng/L). Arterial blood gases showed severe metabolic acidosis, with hyperlactoacidemia (pH 7.2; base excess -6 mEq/L, lactate 9 mmol/dL) and hypoxemia. Non-invasive ventilation was started. First echocardiography showed left ventricular dilatation (LV end-diastolic diameter 56 mm), severe and diffuse LV hypokinesia (LV ejection fraction 34%). Three hours later, the LV ejection fraction dropped to 25% and the cardiac index was 1.4 L/min/m2. Coronary angiography findings were unremarkable. An aortic counterpulsation balloon was placed, in addition to adrenaline (0.07 microgram/kg/min), and noradrenaline (0.1 microgram/kg/min) was added because of worsening hypotension (systolic blood pressure: 80/67/60 mmHg). The mobile team of our third level centre with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) was activated for application of ECMO-VA and transfer of the patient to our hospital. After application of ECMO, the patient presented clear and sudden desaturation requiring orotracheal intubation. On admission to our ICU, due to the maintenance of minimal ventricular ejection and aortic orifice, inotropic support was gradually decreased and finally withdrawn to avoid myocardial adrenergic stimulation. EMB was performed and a venous catheter was placed in the right jugular vein because of persistent severe hypoxaemia, thus switching from ECMO-VA to ECMO-VAV. LV activity progressively returned to normal values on day 5, when ECMO and aortic balloon counterpulsation were removed. Twelve days after ECMO removal, the patient suddenly developed gram-negative pneumonia (Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumoniae) and died of septic shock within a few hours, without any alteration of LV activity.
