A 2-week-old Caucasian boy, son of a 32-year-old woman (3 pregnancies, 2 deliveries, 1 abortion, 2 living children), GBS positive and at 39 weeks' gestation, with voluntary caesarean delivery, brought the baby to the emergency department with a fever of 38.0°C of one day's evolution. In the three days prior to admission, the mother noticed a progressively worsening erythema on the thumb and fourth finger. In addition, the patient had become increasingly drowsy during the last day and had decreased his milk intake, which convinced his mother to take him to the emergency department for evaluation. Routine history taking did not reveal nasal congestion, cough, respiratory distress, vomiting or diarrhoea. The mother reported a feeling of congestion and cough for the last few days and a sibling with viral symptoms. The mother has a history of recurrent oral herpetic lesions.

Physical examination showed a 2-week-old child in good health, conscious and able to take the mother's breast in the emergency department. Physical examination of the patient was unremarkable except for small erosions on the right thumb and fourth finger, with a thin erythematous border without fluctuation or discharge. During the ED visit, the patient presented with a temperature of 38°C, measured rectally. Initial laboratory tests with a complete blood count and blood differential yielded the following results: leukocyte count 9.2 bil/L, haemoglobin 17.7 g/dL, thrombocytes 244 bil/L, neutrophils 0.3 bil/L, lymphocytes 5.0 bil/L, monocytes 3.7 bil/L, immature granulocytes 0.06 bil/L. A complete metabolic profile was relevant only for an aspartate aminotransferase of 64 U/L and an alanine aminotransferase of 40 U/L. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tests showed a glucorrachia of 51 mg/dL, proteinorrachia of 45 mg/dL, leukocyte count of 6/μL and erythrocyte count of 360/μL.

Provisional treatment with antibiotics and acyclovir was started in view of his high liver enzyme values and possible finger lesions. Shortly after a lumbar puncture, the patient developed 85% hypoxia while in the mother's arms, which improved with stimulation and oxygen therapy. Chest X-ray showed bilateral perihilar lines without focal consolidation. The patient was admitted to the paediatric intensive care unit because of hypoxic respiratory failure. Prior to transfer, a nasopharyngeal swab was performed for SARS-CoV-2 testing. The patient required light nasal cannula oxygen therapy in the first 24 hours of admission, but was progressively weaned to room air without the need for increased therapy. On day 1 of admission, PCR testing for SARS-CoV-2 was positive. Additional herpes simplex virus surface cultures and cultures of the right hand lesions tested positive for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Blood and CSF cultures showed no growth and tests for meningitis and CSF encephalitis were negative. Respiratory viral tests were also negative. Complete blood count revealed an improvement of neutrocytopenia from 0.3 bil/L to 0.7 bil/L.

Given the improvement of the patient's clinical condition, neither hydroxychloroquine nor azithromycin was administered. On hospital day 4, he was discharged with oral antibiotics for soft tissue infection.


