A 64-year-old male of Han ethnicity residing in Wuhan city. He had no history of hypertension, diabetes, cerebrovascular or cardiovascular disease. The patient presented with fever on 28 January 2020, with a maximum temperature of 38.5°C and mild cough. Symptomatic treatment relieved the cough, while his temperature varied between 37.5 and 38°C and returned to normal on 30 January. On 20 January she experienced insomnia and myalgia all over her body, without significant pain on palpation. After a medical consultation on 9 February, he was quarantined; during the consultation he was conscious and oriented and was able to answer all questions correctly. On 10 February, the patient was lethargic and hyporereactive. 

Emergency blood tests showed the following results: leucocyte count 3.3 x 10 9/L, with 24.4% lymphocytes, 62.8% neutrophils and a C-reactive protein value of 10.74 mg/L. Cranial CT showed no relevant abnormalities, while thoracic CT revealed several ground-glass opacities with fibrous cord shadows in both lungs. In addition, pharyngeal swabs performed on 11 February indicated that the patient was positive for 2019-nCoV and he was subsequently admitted to hospital. On admission, the patient's vital signs were stable, with pulse oximetry without oxygenation and pulse oximetry with nasal cannula oxygenation (5 L/min) of 88% and 98%, respectively. 

Neurological examination indicated that the patient showed deterioration of mental status, alternating between lethargy and irritability. His answers to questions were incorrect, with signs of contextual dissociation of language. Both lower limbs showed positive foot clonus, more pronounced in the left limb. The left lower limb showed Babinski's sign and Chaddock's sign; the right lower limb showed suspected Chaddock's sign. The patient showed slight nuchal rigidity three fingers below the jaw and was positive for Brudzinski's sign and Lasègue's sign. On admission, the patient received oxygen therapy, arbidol and antiviral therapy with ribavirin, traditional Chinese medicine and symptomatic treatment. On 16 February, a lumbar puncture was performed: endocranial pressure 200 cmH2O (cerebrospinal fluid colourless and normal); cell count 1 x 10 6/L; proteinorrachia 275.5 mg/L, glucorrachia 3.14 mmol/L; chloride 123 mmol/L; instantaneous glycaemia 5.1 mmol/L. 

In addition, cerebrospinal fluid was negative for 2019-nCoV nucleic acid testing. Nucleic acid tests for 2019-nCoV (from throat swabs) were negative on 18 February and positive on 21 February. On 25 February, a chest CT scan showed significant improvement of the lung infection. On neurological examination on the same day, the patient was conscious and oriented, gave correct answers to questions and showed normal intelligence. Limb reflexes were relatively active, foot clonus was no longer observed in either limb and positive pathological signs were present in the left lower limb, while they could not be determined in the right lower limb. The nape of the neck was soft and depressible. The patient tested negative in two consecutive 2019-nCoV nucleic acid tests (from pharyngeal swabs) on 25 and 27 February and his pulse oximetry without oxygenation was 99%. The patient was discharged and transferred to a quarantine facility, where he stayed for a further 14 days.

