A 44-year-old African-American woman presented to the emergency department with fever, vomiting, cough, and lumbar fossa pain. She had acute kidney injury, with serum creatinine of 4.0 mg/dl, in addition to an already diagnosed chronic kidney disease. The initial urinalysis was positive for blood, with a spot protein/creatinine ratio of 3.9 g/g. His baseline serum creatinine, measured 6 months before the first consultation, was 1.4 mg/dl. Baseline urinalysis before the first consultation showed protein 2þ, with no available result of the spot protein/creatinine ratio. His past history included poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus, essential hypertension, dyslipidaemia and chronic kidney disease attributed to diabetes. Her surgical history consisted of a caesarean delivery and a cholecystectomy. She had never smoked. She also denied any alcohol or drug use.
 On physical examination, the patient's temperature was 38.9°C, blood pressure 140/90 mmHg, pulse 107 bpm and respiratory rate 18 bpm; breathing was on room air. He appeared sickly but was conscious and alert. No pain was detected on sinus palpation, but clear pharyngeal erythema was noted, without cervical lymphadenopathy. On auscultation, the lungs were normal. Heart sounds were normal, with no murmurs. The abdomen was soft and depressible, with mildly painful renal fist percussion and bowel sounds. There was no erythema, no pain on palpation, no joint effusion and no exanthema. Capillary refill time was two seconds in all fingers. No oedema with pitting was observed in the extremities. Mood and affect were stable and consistent.
 The patient had anaemia and electrolyte disturbances. In addition, serological tests for hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV were negative. Additional serological tests for C3 and C4 were normal. A chest X-ray showed subsegmental atelectasis and a mild right pleural effusion. A renal ultrasound showed normal sized kidneys with no evidence of obstructive uropathy. The differential diagnosis on admission was septic syndrome, pyelonephritis and COVID-19. He was started on IV fluids, as well as ceftriaxone and vancomycin. A complete study of the renal lesion was ordered. The patient was transferred to the inpatient ward for treatment and management.
Over the course of 5 days, the patient developed disorientation and respiratory distress, which necessitated oxygen therapy. She was able to maintain saturation with 2 to 3 l/min with nasal cannula. A follow-up chest X-ray showed first appearance of diffuse bilateral patchy opacities. Antibiotic treatment was changed from ceftriaxone to cefepime.
 The patient's renal function deteriorated during the same period and she was put on dialysis on hospital day 8, with a serum creatinine of 11.4 mg/dl, despite good diuresis (> 1 l/d). The point protein/creatinine ratio at the time of dialysis was 25 g/g. A complete autoimmune work-up was positive for Sjögren's syndrome-associated antigen A and antinuclear antibodies. Rheumatological evaluation showed no clinical signs of Sjögren's syndrome. Serum antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibodies were negative and tests for C3 and C4 were normal. All blood and urine cultures were negative, pending PCR assay for COVID-19. A renal biopsy was performed to assess the aetiology of the patient's nephropathy.
A diagnosis of collapsing glomerulopathy was made. Shortly after the biopsy, PCR testing for COVID-19 was positive. The patient's clinical condition clearly improved with dialysis. Her disorientation disappeared and she no longer required oxygen therapy. She continued to have good diuresis, although without good clearance, which required further outpatient haemodialysis.

