A 70-year-old woman treated with 7.5 mg prednisone as maintenance therapy for rheumatoid arthritis presented with sudden bilateral weakness and tingling sensation in all four extremities, leading to total functional disability within 48 hours. The patient claimed to have no sphincter problems, dyspnoea or dysphagia. The first diagnosis was aggravation of rheumatoid arthritis, but no improvement was noted after an increase in the corticosteroid dose. On admission to the neurology department on the 10th day since the onset of symptoms (13 April), the neurological examination showed tetraplegia, hypotonia, areflexia and positive bilateral Lasègue's sign. Cranial nerves were normal. Temperature, pulmonary and cardiac auscultation were also normal. On 1 April, three days before the onset of the current symptoms, the patient had an episode of dry cough without dyspnoea or fever, which subsided spontaneously within 48 hours. Initial blood tests revealed no abnormalities except for lymphocytopenia (520/ml; normal value: 1500-5000). A nerve conduction study on day 10 revealed a clear reduction or absence of electrical potentials in the sensory and motor nerves in all four extremities, with no or very mild abnormalities in conduction velocities and latencies. An electromyogram found diffuse and abundant resting fibrillation potentials. These findings were consistent with acute axonal sensorimotor neuropathy (NASMA) of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS). CSF analysis showed an increase in protein to 1 g per litre (normal value: 0.2-0.4) with a normal leucocyte count. A chest CT scan (day 10) showed ground-glass opacities in the left lung. RT-PCR test for SARS-CoV-2 from an oropharyngeal swab (day 10) was positive, but negative in CSF. The patient was treated with i.v. immunoglobulin (2 g/kg for 5 days). (2 g/kg for 5 days) and a combination of hydroxychloroquine (600 mg per day) and azithromycin (500 mg the first day, then 250 mg per day). No significant neurological improvement was observed after one week of treatment.

