A 78-year-old woman, with no known medical history, presented with fever, worsening general condition, abdominal pain in the epigastric area and diarrhoea, of 8 days' evolution. She attended the emergency department when dyspnoea was added to her symptoms. Initially, the patient was haemodynamically stable (blood pressure: 168/89 mmHg), showed symptoms of acute respiratory failure with polypnoea (22 cycles per minute with oxygen saturation of 86% on room air) and tachycardia (100 l.p.m.). Blood work revealed increased C-reactive protein (125 mg/L), hyperleukocytosis (12,600/mm3) and lymphocytopenia. Blood gas analysis showed compensated lactic acidosis (pH 7.43 with hyperlactacidemia: 5.36 mmol/L). Nasopharyngeal swab PCR was negative for SARS-CoV-2.
Two hours after admission, a non-contrast chest CT scan showed typical signs of COVID-19 pneumonia (basically ground-glass opacities without radiological evidence of other infection) with significant involvement (> 75% of lung parenchyma). Upper abdominal sections showed spontaneous hyperdensity (71 Hounsfield units (HU) vs. 38 HU in the portal vein) in the right portal vein. A complementary thoracic, abdominal and pelvic CT scan with contrast in the arterial and portal phases, performed at the same time, confirmed a thrombosis of the right portal vein caused by a thrombosis of the distal part of the superior mesenteric vein extending into the splenomesenteric trunk. Proximal thrombosis of the superior mesenteric artery and jejunal artery was also observed, with subsequent features of ischaemia of the cecum and small bowel with a small amount of fluid in the peritoneal cavity. No pulmonary embolism was observed. A laparotomy was performed a few hours later, which confirmed the ischaemia and removed one metre of necrotic ileum and right colon. Thrombolysis and thromboectomy of the superior mesenteric artery were also performed at the same operation. Despite timely treatment, the patient's condition remained poor due to generalised intestinal ischaemia, in addition to severe lung damage caused by COVID-19. Palliative care was initiated and the patient died 4 days later.


