A 59-year-old Caucasian man with no evidence of cardiovascular risk factors or pharmacological treatment prior to hospitalisation. He was admitted with fever not relieved by paracetamol and dyspnoea of 10 days' evolution. Physical examination revealed tachycardia (pulse 112 bpm), hypotension (90/50 mmHg) and severe hypoxaemia. A serial 12-lead electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia without ST-segment elevation/depression or other electrical pathways suggestive of myocardial failure; a chest X-ray showed signs of severe interstitial pneumonia, with ground-glass changes, suggestive of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Echocardiogram was normal. Because of severe ARDS, refractory to non-invasive mechanical ventilation, the patient underwent endotracheal intubation (ETI) and was transferred to an intensive care unit (ICU) isolation room; SARS-CoV-2 infection was subsequently confirmed by RT-PCR testing from a nasal swab. After a few days of mechanical ventilation, the patient suffered a sudden cardiac arrest followed, after resuscitation, by an acute haemodynamic worsening. An emergency echocardiogram showed severe disruption of the right heart chambers, indicative of acute pulmonary embolism. Because of the rapidly worsening haemodynamic status, no chest CT was performed and the patient was immediately transferred to our cardiac operating theatre. By means of a median sternotomy with bicaval and central aortic venous catheterisation, a large thrombus was removed from the right atrium and the left and right main pulmonary arteries. The complete removal of the thrombus led to a rapid improvement of the pulmonary artery systolic pressure. The intervention was performed with 59 minutes of cardioplegic arrest with mild hypothermia. The patient was treated with hydroxychloroquine sulphate and darunavir and cobicistat as drug therapy. After 32 days of follow-up, he is haemodynamically stable without inotropic support and has been transferred from the ICU to the general hospital ward with spontaneous ventilation. The SARS-CoV-2 infection resolved as confirmed by two RT-PCR tests from nasal swabs.

