A 58-year-old woman reported a productive cough, fatigue, fever and diarrhoea of five days' duration. Physical examination revealed diffuse rhonchi. Initial vital signs were: blood pressure 156/95 mmHg, pulse 130 bpm, oxygen saturation 82% with 5L nasal cannula, respiratory rate 24 bpm, temperature 38,7 °C. Chest X-ray revealed bilateral infiltrates predominantly in the lower lobe. Shortly afterwards she was intubated due to hypoxic respiratory failure and possible acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Electrocardiogram (ECG) showed sinus tachycardia and ascending ST-segment elevation in I and aVL, mild diffuse PR-segment descent and diffuse ST-segment and T-wave changes. Initial troponin I was negative but peaked at 11.02 ng/mL. Of note was the presence of leukocytopenia (absolute lymphocyte count of 1.04 K/cu mm). PCR RNA testing for SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) was positive.  
The patient had a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and dyslipidaemia. She stated that she had not travelled, but pointed out that her father was ill with similar symptoms. 
Based on the initial clinical picture, electrocardiographic findings and increased troponin, the differential diagnosis was ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), stress cardiomyopathy and myopericarditis.
A transthoracic echocardiogram revealed apical, anterolateral, anteroseptal and mid to distal anterior akinetic segments, moderately hypokinetic mid and distal inferolateral segments and hyperdynamic basal segments. Apical ballooning was also noted. The LV ejection fraction was 20%. The right ventricular (RV) distal/apical third free septum was akinetic, with hyperdynamic RV septal basal motion. RV activity was mildly reduced.  
The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit. Echocardiogram findings were classic for Takotsubo syndrome or exertional cardiomyopathy, and as the distribution of septal motion abnormalities did not correspond with ECG findings and increased troponin, STEMI seemed unlikely. In view of the COVID-19 infection, it was again decided to postpone coronary angiography. However, pharmacological treatment for acute coronary syndrome was started with dual antiplatelet therapy and anticoagulation with continuous i.v. heparin. For COVID-19, treatment with hydroxychloroquine was started but subsequently withdrawn after the echocardiogram because of the possible risk of worsening cardiomyopathy and QT lengthening; treatment with azithromycin was completed. Clinically, the patient developed shock, most likely cardiogenic/septic with a central venous oxygen saturation of 42%, and required dobutamine. Over the following days, the cardiogenic shock improved, with a central venous saturation of 65% and decreased dobutamine requirements. Six days later, a repeat echocardiogram was performed, which showed an improvement in global septal motion and an LV EF of 55%. From the rapid improvement seen on the follow-up echocardiogram, his cardiac picture appeared more consistent with exertional cardiomyopathy in the setting of a COVID-19 infection. This diagnosis was supported by the ECG, which revealed no evidence of Q-wave myocardial infarction. 

