A 66-year-old woman presented with difficulty walking and acute fatigue of 72 hours' duration; she had had a fever and cough ten days earlier, with spontaneous resolution of the fever after a few days. He also reported a transient pruritic dorsal rash, but had no gastrointestinal symptoms or relevant medical history, except for mild hypertension treated with beta-blockers. A CT scan of the lung showed bilateral ground-glass opacities, but the first rhinopharyngeal smear for SARS-CoV-2 was negative; initial blood tests and blood gases were unremarkable. On examination, the patient was paraparesis, with rapidly progressive symmetrical weakness in the lower extremities, leading to falls and paraplegia. She also had distal upper extremity weakness (Medical Research Council scale score 4/5) and diffuse areflexia, but no clear sensory deficits. A lumbar puncture showed typical albumin-cytological imbalance (0 cells/uL, 108 mg/dL protein), leading to immediate initiation of i.v. immunoglobulin therapy (0.4 g/kg for 5.5 days). (0.4 g/kg for 5 days) with a presumptive diagnosis of GBS. Ten days after symptom onset, a nerve conduction study revealed absent F waves with diffuse prolonged distal motor latencies and reduced distal compound muscle action potential amplitudes, with slightly reduced conduction velocities, suggesting a mixed pattern of demyelination and axonal damage; no sensory nerve action potential was observed. SARS-CoV-2 was not detected in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), while serological tests were not available at the time; anti-glycolipid antibodies were also not detected.
In the meantime, the patient had been admitted to a subintensive care unit as her second smear had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, so a combination treatment of antiretrovirals (lopinavir and ritonavir) and hydroxychloroquine was started, maintaining reasonable respiratory function with oxygen therapy.
However, the woman had no improvement from previous treatment with i.v. immunoglobulins and developed progressive weakness in all limbs, dysaesthesia and unilateral facial paralysis. She also required treatment for transient episodes of disorientation with psychomotor excitement. In addition, gas exchange worsened, with sudden desaturation requiring intubation and admission to the intensive care unit, where she was treated for multi-organ failure, deep vein thrombosis and superimposed bacterial infection (aspiration pneumonia).


