An 82-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency department with fever and general malaise of 5 days' duration. The patient took oral azithromycin and amoxicillin/clavulanate with no improvement. She was an ex-smoker, with a history of hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. On admission she showed severe respiratory failure (PaO2/FiO2 55 mmHg, respiratory rate 26 r.p.m.) and required high-flow oxygen therapy. A lung ultrasound showed diffuse B-lines with pleural thickening and small subpleural consolidations. A chest CT scan and nasopharyngeal swab confirmed the diagnosis of COVID-19 pneumonia. Antibiotics were withdrawn and treatment was started with darunavir/cobicistat, hydroxychloroquine and LMWH at a preventive dose.
On day 12 after admission, the patient reported pain in her right leg and a feeling of warmth. She reported no chest pain or dyspnoea (PaO2/FiO2 > 300 mmHg with nasal goggles). Physical examination revealed right leg oedema and signs of dehydration. A compression ultrasound of the proximal portion of the right femoral vein indicated venous thrombosis. A lung ultrasound showed several bibasal consolidations. Echocardiography revealed normal ventricular function with no indirect signs of pulmonary embolism. The inferior vena cava was totally collapsed, indicating hypovolaemia. An electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed sinus tachycardia. Blood tests showed high values for D-dimer (24,131 mg/dl), fibrinogen (674 mg/dl), serum ferritin (765 ng/ml) and troponin I (57 ng/ml). As creatinine clearance was ≤ 30 ml/min, i.v. unfractionated heparin was started with close monitoring of partial thromboplastin time (PTT). The patient underwent a chest CT scan which showed diffuse bilateral consolidations and cobblestone pattern (CT visual index 70%). Based on these findings, we introduced systemic corticosteroids. The patient progressively improved with complete resolution of acute renal failure after infusion of crystalloid solution; she only needed low-flow oxygen therapy. After 3 days, the heparin infusion was changed to a standard dose of LMWH (enoxaparin). 


