A 51-year-old man was referred to our hospital on April 2, 2020 with progressive weakness in the lower and upper extremities and acral paresthesia of two days' evolution. He also reported intermittent fever and flu-like symptoms with clear fatigue and dry cough for the last two weeks.
On clinical examination, considerable tetraparesis was observed, with muscle strength in the extremities between 2/5 and 4/5 (on the Medical Research Council scale), as well as generalised areflexia. Vital signs were stable.
On admission, a low-dose chest CT scan revealed bilateral interstitial infiltrates typical of COVID-19 pneumonia. COVID-19 infection was later confirmed by a positive PCR test for SARS-CoV-2 from a pharyngeal swab.
On admission, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) revealed mild pleocytosis (9 cells/μl), normal protein value and negative PCR for SARS-CoV-2. Serum anti-ganglioside antibodies were negative.
An electroneurogram the day after admission showed prolonged distal motor latencies (left median nerve 8.4 ms; left tibial nerve 11.6 ms) and F-wave loss, suggesting peripheral demyelination.
Due to rapidly worsening pulmonary gas exchange, the patient required endotracheal intubation on the second day of admission. After pulmonary stabilisation, a tracheostomy was performed on day 7 of admission and attempts were made to withdraw assisted ventilation.
Despite treatment with i.v. immunoglobulins (30 g per day for 5 days), the patient was admitted to the hospital. (30 g per day for 5 days, started on admission), the neurological status worsened to an almost total peripheral locked-in syndrome, with tetraplegia, complete hypoaesthesia in all extremities, bilateral sublingual and facial paresis and respiratory failure due to muscle weakness.
In view of the fulminant neurological evolution, plasmapheresis therapy was started on the 13th day of admission (total of 14 treatments). Just before the start of plasmapheresis, a second CSF sample was obtained, which showed a clear increase in protein (10,231 mg/l; normal range up to 450 mg/l) without pleocytosis.
On day 14 after admission, a spinal MRI was performed which showed large symmetrical contrast enhancement of the spinal nerve roots in all spinal segments, including the cauda equina. Of note, the anterior and posterior nerve roots showed the same involvement.
MRI (T1-weighted sequences after gadolinium application) showed symmetrical enhancement of the anterior and posterior roots in the cervical spine and cauda equina.
31 days after admission, the patient was referred to a specialised rehabilitation clinic. At that time he showed signs of motor improvement with regressive sublingual and facial paresis, but still required mechanical ventilation.


