A 66-year-old man presented to the emergency department of the Mantua municipal hospital in November 2011 with severe spontaneous skin and muscle haemorrhage. He had no history of bleeding. Blood tests revealed normocytic anaemia (haemoglobin 9 g/dL) with normal leukocyte and thrombocyte counts and prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (ratio 2.97, normal range 0.82-1.18), with normal prothrombin time. A mixing study failed to correct the activated partial thromboplastin time, suggesting the presence of an inhibitor that was correctly identified as targeting factor VIII (FVIII < 1%, inhibitor value 25 Bethesda units [BU]). A diagnosis of idiopathic acquired haemophilia A (HAA) was established. The patient was successfully treated with i.v. recombinant activated factor VII (90 μg/kg every 3 days). (90 μg/kg every 3 hours until arrest of bleeding) and oral prednisone and cyclophosphamide (1 mg/kg per day for 4 weeks, then tapering), with complete remission at day +21.
After a period of 9 years in good health, with normal coagulation tests performed every 6 months, the patient was re-admitted to Mantua municipal hospital in March 2020 because of fever (38.7°C), cough, asthenia and respiratory distress of 3 days' evolution. The diagnosis of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was confirmed by RT-PCR of nasal smear. A chest CT scan showed bilateral interstitial pneumonia. Because of the concomitant presence of an extensive haematoma in the trunk, a TTPa analysis was performed, which revealed a prolonged time (ratio 2.87). Again, a diagnosis of HAA was established (FVIII < 1%, inhibitor value 19 BU) and the patient was treated with the same antihaemorrhagic and immunosuppressive regimen, with complete remission on day +20. In addition, the patient received antivirals (lopinavir/ritonavir 400 mg twice daily) and non-invasive mechanical ventilation with oxygen therapy, due to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, with resolution of the disease on day +14.

