An 83-year-old non-smoking woman presented to our hospital on 12 March 2020 with fever, malaise, headache, dry cough and dyspnoea. She had a history of mild intermittent asthma, treated with albuterol inhaler on demand, mitral valve prolapse with moderate to severe mitral regurgitation and ulcerative colitis, adequately controlled with oral budesonide (3 mg/day with progressive tapering) and maintenance sulfasalazine (1500 mg twice daily). His symptoms had started about two weeks before the first visit, shortly after a trip from Florida to Massachusetts, and had not improved with azithromycin and amoxicillin/clavulanate. In the ED, he had a fever of 39.3°C and room air saturation of 86%, which improved to 95% with nasal cannula oxygen therapy at 5 litres per minute. Initial laboratory tests showed leukocytosis and relative lymphocytopenia (absolute lymphocyte count 1090 cells/microlitre). A chest CT scan was remarkable for diffuse bilateral ground-glass opacities, with patchy bands of atelectasis and small nodular nuclei of consolidation, with a distribution suggestive of viral pneumonia. Slight cystic changes were also seen in the affected regions. She was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and placed under strict isolation, taking into account a possible out-of-hospital SARS-CoV-2 infection. She presented with worsening tachypnoea with respiratory rate of 40 r.p.m. and hypoxia with an oxygen saturation of 80%, requiring oxygen therapy by means of a reservoir mask at a rate of 15 L/min. Arterial blood gases gave an arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) of 63 mm Hg with oxygen therapy at 15 L/min. The patient was intubated due to hypoxaemic respiratory failure and maintained on assisted ventilation with the ARDSNet low tidal volume protocol. Her PaO2/FiO2 (ratio of PaO2 to fraction of inspired oxygen [FiO2]) was consistent with moderate ARDS. Extensive additional testing for viral, bacterial and fungal organisms confirmed the diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection, based on the detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in a nasopharyngeal swab. In addition, the serum (1,3)-β-D-glucan value was clearly high at 305 pg/mL (reference value < 80 pg/mL), which implied further testing for P. jirovecii by qualitative real-time PCR from a tracheal aspirate, which was positive (fluorescence value 0.160 at melting temperature [Tm] 62.4 °C; minimum fluorescence signal intensity for positive result ≥ 0.020). In addition, it showed no apparent clinical features associated with a false-positive (1,3)-β-D-glucan determination, such as exposure to haemodialysis membranes, intravenous immunoglobulin, albumin dressings or intravenous beta-lactam antibiotics. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1/2 antibody/antigen test was negative. However, the CD4+ T-lymphocyte count was low at 291 cells/microlitre (reference value 441-2156 cells/microlitre), as was the CD4+/CD8+ ratio (1.18; reference value 1.20-5.30). The patient was treated with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) and extubated on hospital day 7. The serum (1,3)-β-D-glucan value obtained one week after starting treatment was significantly reduced (90 pg/mL). In addition, the CD4+ T-lymphocyte count ten days after the initial consultation showed an improvement (730 cells/microlitre).

