On 17 March, a 48-year-old man attended the emergency department of the Policlinico Hospital of Bari (Puglia, Italy) with fever, cough, dyspnoea and hyporexia of 6 days' evolution. Physical examination showed normal vital signs, but due to 90% saturation in room air, he was given oxygen therapy at 6 litres per minute (Venturi mask 31%). The patient did not report any pre-existing diseases such as diabetes, hypertension or cardiovascular disease. Because of suspected COVID-19, he was immediately admitted to the "grey zone" of internal medicine at the Polyclinic Hospital for COVID "Asclepios". Chest X-ray showed pneumonia (multiple bilateral thickenings with ill-defined borders and consolidation more evident on the right side). Real-time PCR of nasopharyngeal swab collected on 18 March revealed the presence of SARS-CoV-2. The virus was detected by real-time PCR test targeting the E, RdRP and N genes. The patient presented with a severe form of the disease due to the presence of fever, respiratory symptoms, radiological signs of pneumonia and PaO2/FiO2 < 300mmHg. He was treated with oxygen at various volumes (up to 60% FiO2 MV), lopinavir/ritonavir (200/50 mg, 2 tablets ×2/day), hydroxychloroquine (400 mg twice daily on the first day and 200 mg twice daily thereafter), enoxaparin (600 IU twice daily) and methylprednisolone (initial dose 40 mg twice daily, then tapered). At the review after 6 days, the chest X-ray showed a slight improvement of the complaints. 
After 14 days, the patient was afebrile and his respiratory symptoms disappeared. The chest X-ray revealed only diffuse areas of parenchymal thickening. Our hospital required two consecutive negative molecular tests for SARS-CoV-2, plus normal temperature, resolution of respiratory symptoms and improvement of lung imaging. The two nasopharyngeal swabs collected on 30 and 31 March were both negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection. Accordingly, the patient was discharged and advised to maintain home quarantine for a minimum of 14 days. Molecular tests were also negative at his follow-up visit on 15 April, suggesting that the patient had been cured of COVID-19. In addition, two serological tests (VivaDiagTM, VivaChek Laboratories, INC, USA, and Anti SARS-CoV-2 ELISA IgG Test, Euroimmun, Lübeck, Germany) revealed the presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgM and IgG. However, on 30 April he presented new symptoms, with dyspnoea and chest pain. He returned to the emergency department, where he was admitted to the same ward with suspected pulmonary embolism, confirmed by CT scan. The image showed segmental and subsegmental signs of arterial microembolism, with some areas of ground-glass opacities. Because of his recent clinical history, a SARS-CoV-2 molecular test was performed, with a positive result. In addition, serological tests revealed the presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG only. To date, the patient is in good health, on anticoagulants and without the need for oxygen therapy.


