A 72-year-old man with a history of hypertension and hyperlipidaemia presented to the emergency department with dyspnoea, fever and chills, of approximately one week's duration. He had received outpatient symptomatic treatment with azithromycin for a possible upper respiratory tract infection; he then tested positive for COVID-19. On admission, his vital signs were temperature (T) 36.7°C, pulse 91 bpm, respiratory rate 28 bpm, blood pressure 120/78 mmHg. A course of hydroxychloroquine was started. A chest X-ray showed minimal and ill-defined bibasal opacities. Initial arterial blood gases were relevant for an arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2) of 53 mmHg and peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2) of 88% on room air. Minimal improvement was observed with nasal cannula oxygen therapy; a 50% Venturi mask was applied. On day 2 of hospitalisation, the patient showed increasing shortness of breath, with saturation in the lower 80 range, so he was switched to high-flow nasal cannula at 60% and 40 L/min. Over the next few days he did not improve and required 100% oxygen and 60 L/min to maintain SpO2 above 90. With increasing dyspnoea and fatigue and SpO2 around 85, despite maximal support by high-flow nasal cannula, it was decided to intubate the patient on day 8 of hospitalisation. Two days later, oxygenation had not improved, despite maximal ventilation with pressure-relieving ventilation, prone position and paralysis. The PaO2/FiO2 (P/F) ratio was between 51 and 72. Because of his age, he could not be placed on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and it was decided to initiate treatment with tPA. His pre-treatment D-dimer and fibrinogen values were 2.16 ug/mL and 654 mg/dL, respectively. About 24 hours after APt infusion, his P/F ratio increased to 76 (69 pre-treatment) and his oxygenation requirements dropped to a FiO2 of 80%. D-dimer initially increased to 9.57 ug/mL. His P/F ratio continued to increase daily, with decreasing oxygen requirements; on post-treatment day 5 it reached 121, a 175% increase over pre-treatment values. D-dimer decreased to 1.9 ug/mL. Ventilation was downgraded from pressure-relieved ventilation to volume-guaranteed pressure-controlled ventilation and weaning was eliminated. On post-treatment day 8, pressure requirements decreased to 18 and his P/F ratio increased to 127. On post-treatment day 12, the patient successfully passed a PPC test and the following day he could be extubated and switched to high-flow nasal cannula. He was subsequently transferred to the ward with nasal cannula oxygen therapy. 


