A 36-year-old man came to the emergency department with suspected SARS-CoV-2 infection and a history of dry cough, fever and dyspnoea of three weeks' evolution. He reported significant worsening of dyspnoea in the previous 4 hours, with left pleural chest pain. His medical history was relevant only for childhood asthma and for being a 10 pack-year smoker. He had no history of recent trauma or previous pneumothorax. The patient worked as a courier and had previously performed domestic cleaning tasks.
The patient was cared for in a resuscitation room and the staff wore full personal protective equipment. On admission, the patient was clearly hypoxaemic, with an SpO2 of 88%-90% on a reservoir mask at 15 L/min, respiratory rate of 50 r.p.m., using secondary respiratory muscles, and tachycardic with a regular pulse rate of 150 l.p.m. His trachea remained central, his trachea was still central, and his trachea was still central. His trachea remained central, with jugular venous pressure 3 cm above the costal angle and blood pressure 110/65 mmHg. On auscultation, there were no breath sounds throughout the left hemithorax, with reduced vocal vibrations and asymmetric chest expansion. An anteroposterior portable chest X-ray was performed, revealing a large left pneumothorax with mediastinal shift and radiological signs of tension. The compressed right lung showed signs of severe COVID-19, i.e. patchy generalised consolidative changes. Complete blood count revealed increased leukocytes (13.64×109/L) with neutrophilia (8.91×109/L), lymphocytes (3.81×109/L), haemoglobin (146 g/L) and thrombocytes (1051×109/L); biochemical markers showed increased C-reactive protein (28.7 mg/L) and alanine aminotransferase (107 IU/L). These results supported the possibility of bacterial infection superimposed on COVID-19. A 12-lead ECG revealed sinus tachycardia at 155 bpm.
A lung ultrasound after definitive treatment showed multiple confluent B lines with bilateral pleural thickening, consistent with the diagnosis of COVID-19. A new chest X-ray confirmed lung re-expansion with extensive bilateral consolidation. The patient underwent a chest CT scan the following day, which showed extensive areas of patchy consolidation, consistent with severe COVID-19 infection, with associated bullae. After discussion of the radiological findings, the patient underwent urgent decompression of his pneumothorax with a 14-gauge cannula inserted into the second intercostal space and the midclavicular line. After the initial decompression, a Seldinger chest drain with a 12F-gauge tube was inserted in the left axilla. Treatment led to immediate improvement in respiratory and cardiovascular activity, with clinical and radiological evidence of lung re-expansion. One hour later, the patient's oxygen requirement was reduced from 15 L/min with a reservoir mask to 4 L/min via nasal cannula, with normalisation of pulse and respiratory rate. The patient was admitted to a COVID-19 ward, with complete lung re-expansion and, two days later, successful removal of the chest drain. His initial COVID-19 smear was negative; however, after reviewing the evolution and imaging results, the infectious diseases team considered COVID-19 infection highly probable, and that the delay in the initial clinical picture resulted in a negative test. She was discharged two days later and is awaiting outpatient follow-up with the pulmonology team.

