An otherwise healthy 8-year-old boy of African origin (height 130 cm, weight 29 kg) came to our hospital with fever, cough, thinness and extreme tiredness of 4 days' duration. On physical examination, he had a fever (39.6°C) and presented with a painful, swollen, warm erythema with lymphadenopathy on the right side of the neck. Cellulitis was diagnosed and confirmed by ultrasound; he was hospitalised for i.v. antibiotics. A few hours after admission he presented tachycardia (138 bpm), hypotension (94/40 mmHg) resistant to i.v. fluid injection and associated with a presentation of hepatomegaly and oliguria. Blood tests showed increased C-reactive protein (73 mg/L), leukocytopenia (4260/mm3) with lymphocytopenia (400/mm3), thrombocytopenia (118. 000/mm3), impaired renal activity (urea: 37 mg/dL, serum creatinine: 0.62 mg/dL), hepatic cytolysis (glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase: 88 IU/L, glutamic pyruvic transaminase: 50 IU/L), myocardial necrosis (high-sensitivity troponin T values: 0.044 ng/mL, N-terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide: 5112 pg/mL) as well as high values of D-dimer (> 4.40 μg/mL) and interleukin 6 (IL-6, 377.8 pg/mL). A two-dimensional echocardiogram revealed normal cardiac anatomical features, with left ventricular dysfunction (fractional shortening: 21%) and evidence of mitral insufficiency and a small pericardial effusion, without evidence of left ventricular dilatation, myocardial hypertrophy or significant pulmonary hypertension. The electrocardiogram was relevant for a mild ST elevation in V3, consistent with pericarditis. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit, given anticoagulants, with enoxaparin, and treated with dobutamine, which rapidly normalised his blood pressure and restored diuresis. He also received oxygen to support cardiac activity. Follow-up tests showed a rapid increase in inflammatory markers (CRP max: 151 mg/L, interleukin 6 max: 1023 pg/mL, ferritin max: 2869 ng/mL), progression of liver cytolysis (TOG max: 100 U/L, TPG max: 70 U/L) and renal failure (creatinine max: 0.75 mg/dL). A cardiac MRI performed on day 3 confirmed biventricular systolic dysfunction (LV ejection fraction: 41%, RV ejection fraction: 46%) with mild pericardial effusion, mild subepicardial gadolinium enhancement of the lateral septum and signs of diffuse oedema. His day 3 chest X-ray showed bilateral lower lobe pneumopathy with bilateral pleural effusion, without ground-glass opacities. A nasopharyngeal swab obtained on admission was positive for SARS-CoV-2 by real-time RT-PCR. In addition, a PCR of stool, collected on day 6, was also positive (N1 gene at 39 CT and RdPR gene at 39 CT). The patient had high Ig A and Ig G values in serum samples on day 6 (Ig A: 8.39; Ig G: 10.90, using an enzyme immunoadsorption assay kit). Tests for other cardiotropic pathogens were negative (nasopharyngeal swab PCR for adenovirus, coronavirus NL63, 229E, OC43 and HKU1, enterovirus, parainfluenza virus, influenza virus and Mycoplasma pneumoniae; pharyngeal exudate; serological tests for parvovirus B19; blood cultures). He received i.v. immunoglobulins. (2 g/kg over two days). Dobutamine (max: 8.5 μg/kg/min) was withdrawn on day two, replaced by milrinone (max: 0.6 μg/kg/min) until day 3. As COVID-19 was rapidly confirmed and the patient had a life-threatening condition associated with a massive inflammatory crisis considering the IL-6 value, tocilizumab (2 doses of 8 mg/kg2) was administered according to national guidelines for COVID-19. Surprisingly, the cervical cellulitis disappeared after the first dose of tocilizumab, which was well tolerated with no adverse effects until discharge. It could be that the cellulitis was a dermatological feature of COVID-19. A follow-up cardiac MRI performed one week later showed normal systolic activity and regression of myocardial oedema. The patient was discharged on day 10 with normal cardiac activity and normalisation of haematic abnormalities.

