A 52-year-old woman came to our dermatology clinic with erythematous pruritic lesions on the extremities and abrasions on the lips and buccal mucosa. She had no flu-like symptoms or fever. She had been treated in a dental clinic 3 days earlier (day -3) and was prescribed antibiotics (cefcapene) and the NSAID loxoprofen. Erythematous lesions and lip abrasions appeared two days later (day -1). Her haemogram was normal. The skin lesions were diagnosed as a drug eruption (day 0). Pathological analysis of a skin biopsy obtained from a hardened erythematous lesion of the leg revealed mild liquefaction with mixed perivascular and periadnexal cellular infiltrates from the papillary dermis to the deep hypodermis. Deep lymphocytic infiltrates are unusual in drug eruptions. Lymphocyte stimulation tests were performed for cefcapene (stimulation index: 151%) and loxoprofen (stimulation index: 300%). A course of oral prednisolone (20 mg/day) was started immediately to treat worsening oral lesions. On day 2, a well-demarcated infiltrated erythema was observed on the trunk. Abrasions of the lower lips and buccal mucosa gradually improved. Prednisolone was reduced to 10 mg/day. Five days after tapering prednisolone (day 7), the patient returned to our clinic with high fever, cough, chills, fatigue and dyspnoea. She did not report having travelled, but worked in a health care centre for the elderly. A CT scan showed mild ground-glass opacities in the lower lung lobes. Blood tests revealed an elevated white blood cell count (22,300/l), with lymphocytopenia (490/l) and increased neutrophils (20,449/l), high C-reactive protein values (12.8 mg/dl) and normal lactic acid and dehydrogenase values (196 U/L). She was diagnosed with pneumonia and was admitted to an infectious diseases ward with suspected COVID-19. Lymphocytopenia is an aggravating factor for COVID-19. On admission (day 7), her erythematous lesions rapidly worsened. Severe infection led us to withdraw oral prednisolone and start a regimen of ampicillin/sulbactam and clarithromycin. On day 8, new macular papules and erythematous lesions appeared on the face and trunk, with petechiae. A biopsy of a hardened erythematous lesion of the abdominal skin was obtained. Pathological examination revealed interfacial changes with liquefaction and mixed perivascular cellular infiltrates, with histiocytes and neutrophils in the papillary dermis. Ampicillin/sulbactam was changed to levofloxacin. On day 10, the erythematous lesions peaked and gradually pigmented. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing for COVID-19 on day 1 of admission was negative, but a CT scan showed progression of ground-glass opacities. A second PCR for COVID-19 was positive on day 3 of admission and the patient was diagnosed with COVID-19 and transferred to an intensive care unit of another hospital.

