The patient is a twin born at 32+6 weeks due to pre-eclampsia, with a slight atrial septal defect (< 4 mm) and cleft palate. At birth he was intubated before being progressively weaned from assisted ventilation within a week. At 37+3 weeks corrected gestational age, he presented with dyspnoea at home and was taken to hospital. Of note, he had had recent contact with asymptomatic family members and healthcare professionals, who subsequently developed symptoms and were confirmed with SARS-CoV-2 infection.
In the emergency department, progressive hypoxia led to several failed intubation attempts.
Nasopharyngeal aspirates were positive for SARS-CoV-2 by PCR. Oxygenation and ventilation were maintained by laryngeal mask during transfer to a specialised care centre for otorhinolaryngological intervention. He was successfully intubated in the operating theatre by microlaryngo-bronchoscopy; all staff wore appropriate personal protective equipment. Significant glottic swelling and abundant airway secretion were noted.
Initial moderate breathing pressures and FiO2 of 0.6 were progressively reduced over 3 days. Initial chest X-ray showed mild bilateral ground-glass opacities. C-reactive protein was 42 mg/L and lymphocytopenia (1.45 x 10*9/L) was detected, with all other values normal. A series of tracheal aspirates and urine and stool cultures excluded bacterial or fungal co-infections. A thrombus in the femoral artery associated with the tract was treated with anticoagulants.
After several days of assisted laryngeal breathing, the parameters improved and extubation could be attempted. The multidisciplinary team decided to use standard preventive steroids to optimise laryngeal conditions at extubation, especially considering the previous intubation difficulties. Two pre-emptive doses of dexamethasone were administered.
Prior to extubation, the patient worsened, with fulminant ARDS and an associated worsening chest X-ray. He could not be treated with conventional ventilation and required high frequency oscillatory ventilation, nitric oxide, prone ventilation and inotropic support to maintain oxygenation and ventilation. ECMO was considered but was not necessary. A possible bacterial superinfection was treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics and ruled out by bronchoalveolar lavage, performed under strict safety measures with personal protective equipment. In view of the life-threatening deterioration, a multidisciplinary team was assembled on an urgent basis, which, via videoconference, conducted a review of innovative therapies together with the bioethics team and the patient's parents. As there was little evidence of hyperinflammation (IL6 < 50pg/ml, ferritin 411 ug/L), antiviral therapy was preferred to immunomodulation. It was agreed to request compassionate use of remdesivir.
An initial dose of 5 mg/kg was administered followed by a maintenance dose of 1.25 mg/kg for 10 days. IL10 showed an increase (110 pg/ml) but normalised by day 5 of treatment. C-reactive protein peaked at 63 mg/L on day 6, ferritin at 789 on day 9 and D-dimer at 1143 ug/L on day 10.
Daily tracheal aspirates for SARS-CoV-2 PCR were negative 5 days after remdesivir administration, excluding an isolated positive on day 10.
Peak troponin value was 138 ng/L. There were no echocardiographic or clinical signs of myocarditis. Echocardiogram on day 7 of illness showed only a small foramen ovale with left-right communication, mild dilatation of the left-sided structures and mild mitral insufficiency.
Respiratory and inotropic support were progressively reduced and the patient was successfully extubated on day 18 of illness. He was discharged home.



