A 67-year-old man was admitted with fever, cough, nasal congestion, sore throat and diarrhoea, 20 months after an uncomplicated heart transplant. He was not hypoxic.
A chest CT scan showed peripheral, multifocal, bilateral ground-glass opacities. The white blood cell count was 4720/ml, with a lymphocyte count of 1040/ml. Blood cultures and PCR for cytomegalovirus were unremarkable. The C-reactive protein value was 0.55 mg/dl. A nasopharyngeal swab PCR for SARS-CoV-2 was positive, consistent with COVID-19 disease.
The immunosuppression regimen consisted of 500 mg mycophenolate twice daily and tacrolimus at a minimum concentration of 7.6 ng/ml on admission. Mycophenolate was withdrawn and tacrolimus was maintained at a target concentration of 7-10 ng/ml. The patient continued to have intermittent fever but never experienced hypoxia. A chest CT scan on day 6 showed worsening ground-glass opacities. On day 7 a course of hydroxychloroquine was started (400 mg twice daily on the first day, then 200 mg twice daily for 4 days). He was discharged on day 9.
He was admitted again after two days, with disorientation, anorexia and vomiting. He was conscious, oriented only to people and febrile. He had no history of confusional delirium or encephalopathy and was under treatment with venlafaxine for depression. Examination revealed intention and postural tremor, with no focal neurological deficits. The C-reactive protein value was high at 10.7 mg/dl, and there was a slight elevation of aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase at 74 U/litre and 79 U/litre, respectively. Serum ammonia and TSH were normal. Serum sodium was low at 133 milliequivalents/litre (normal range: 135-145 milliequivalents/litre), but returned to normal on day 2 of readmission. Urea nitrogen and serum creatinine were 42 mg/dl and 1.73 mg/dl, respectively, unchanged from baseline. The tacrolimus trough concentration at readmission was 11.5 ng/ml, averaged at 10 § 1.2 ng/ml during admission. Hydroxychloroquine was withdrawn.
A cranial CT scan yielded no relevant findings. A thoracic CT scan showed minimal worsening of ground-glass opacities. A brain MRI showed mild scattered foci of subcortical and deep periventricular white matter ischaemia. There was no evidence of encephalitis, posterior reversible encephalopathy or leukoencephalopathy. A new MRI one week later showed no changes. An electroencephalogram revealed mild diffuse and non-specific multifocal brain alterations, with no evidence of seizures. A lumbar puncture showed normal values for lymphocytes, protein and glucose. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis was negative for herpes simplex PCR and cryptococcal antigens. CSF PCR, not validated for SARS-CoV-2, was negative. On day 16, C-reactive protein values started to decrease. Mental status slowly improved and the patient was discharged 13 days after readmission. Intentional function and memory remained poor, but gradually recovered to normal about 45 days after the onset of encephalopathy.

