We describe the case of a 74-year-old man with a history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes and ischaemic stroke, who underwent thrombectomy in 2017. He had been in solitary confinement since returning from a trip to a COVID-19 risk area 13 days earlier. He presented to the emergency department with general malaise and dyspnoea. He had had parainfluenza symptoms and fever for two days prior to admission, as well as spontaneously resolving chest pain.
On admission to the ED, the patient presented severe hypoxaemic respiratory failure and oxygen was administered via a high-flow nasal cannula. His condition progressively worsened and he required endotracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation.
Electrocardiogram on admission showed sinus tachycardia with minimal isolated ST-segment elevation in lead III and ST-segment depression in V2-V4. Subsequent electrocardiograms showed no tachycardia. Chest X-ray showed basically peripheral cottony infiltrates in both lung fields, and blood tests on admission revealed acute renal failure (creatinine 2 mg/dL) and significantly increased enzymes, with a creatine kinase value of 731 U/L and a cardiac ultrasensitive troponin T value of 1162 ng/L. High values of interleukin 6 (135 pg/mL), ferritin (145μg/L), lactate dehydrogenase (992U/L), D-dimer (55mcg/mL) and N-terminal prohormone of brain natriuretic peptide (4076pg/mL) were also observed.
A transthoracic echocardiogram showed left ventricular dysfunction with inferolateral hypokinesis. Considering the high likelihood of COVID-19 from the clinical picture and the patient's recent travel, a test for coronavirus acute respiratory distress syndrome 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was performed, with a positive result.
In the following hours, the patient suffered a clear haemodynamic deterioration followed by mixed shock, requiring vasoactive support with noradrenaline at a maximum dose of 0.44 mg/kg/min. An emergency cardiac catheterisation showed trivascular coronary artery disease with thrombotic occlusion of the right coronary artery. He was treated by percutaneous coronary intervention and placement of two drug-eluting stents; the thrombus migrated to the posterior descending artery.
The patient was given antiplatelet agents (aspirin and clopidogrel) and anticoagulants with heparin sodium. He was also started on a regimen of hydroxychloroquine and tocilizumab. His condition progressively worsened over the following hours, with haemodynamic deterioration. A thoracic and abdominal CT scan was performed, which showed multiple arterial thromboses and findings consistent with mesenteric ischaemia, splenic infarction and pulmonary thromboembolism (28%). The patient died 72 hours after admission.


