A 69-year-old man was admitted to the ICU for status epilepticus requiring endotracheal intubation, with 5 days of evolution and fever, cough and anosmia. Tracheal aspirate detected SARS-CoV-2 by RT-PCR. The patient had a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension and a crisis that had occurred a year earlier, associated with hyperglycaemia and uncontrolled diabetes. On admission to the ICU, the patient was treated with i.v. levetiracetam. A brain CT scan showed no relevant findings; an electroencephalogram (EEG) showed repetitive rhythmic paroxysms at 1 Hz in the right frontal region, indicative of non-convulsive status epilepticus. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis was unremarkable, with 1 leukocyte per cubic millimetre, 18 erythrocytes per cubic millimetre, and protein and glucose values of 0.66 g/L and 10.5 mml/L respectively (glycaemia 20 mmol/L). An RT-PCR assay of CSF was negative for SARS-CoV-2. All other tests for infectious agents and autoimmune diseases were negative in serum and CSF. A brain MRI revealed hyperintensity of the right orbital prefrontal cortex adjacent to the olfactory bulb, which appeared to extend into the right medial prefrontal cortex and right caudate nucleus. No gadolinium enhancement was observed. After a multidisciplinary analysis, treatment with i.v. immunoglobulins at a dose of 2 g/kg was administered. On day 2, EEG showed persistent lateralised periodic discharges at short intervals (0.7-1.2 s) in the right frontal lobe. The patient improved after one week, allowing removal of mechanical ventilation, but showed signs of frontal lobe syndrome such as verbal perseveration and imitative behaviour and was somnolent for several days after extubation. MRI on day 15 showed persistence of clear hyperintensity in the right caudate nucleus and a significant decrease in hyperintensity in the prefrontal cortex. The MRI performed on day 30 was normal. The conclusion was that the initial hyperintensities on MRI were due in part to pericritical diffusion abnormalities. 


