A 71-year-old man with a history of benign prostatic hyperplasia and a smoker for 30 years (20 cigarettes a day) came to the emergency department with a dry cough, mild dyspnoea and a fever of 38°C which did not improve with paracetamol, of one week's duration. Two weeks earlier he had returned to Mexico City from Miami. On the day of admission, his dyspnoea worsened and he suffered from intense myalgia and arthralgia, especially in the legs.
On initial evaluation, the patient reported general weakness and malaise. He reported no nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, urinary or neurological symptoms. He had taken no medication except paracetamol (750 mg every 8 hours to control fever). He had no known allergies.
Physical examination showed a blood pressure of 120/68 mmHg, pulse of 90 bpm and respiratory rate of 22 bpm. Temperature was 36.5 °C and oxygen saturation was 84% on room air. He was conscious and oriented, but his speech was slow and slurred. A cardiopulmonary examination revealed rales in both lung bases, but no signs of respiratory distress. Otherwise, the physical examination was normal.
Blood tests showed a normal white blood cell count with lymphocytopenia (0.85 × 109/L), haemoglobin concentration of 161 g/L and mild thrombocytopenia (118 000 × 109/L). His creatinine value was high at 1.68 mg/dL, and C-reactive protein and procalcitonin were also elevated at 2.9 mg/dL and 2.89 ng/mL, respectively. Increased interleukin 6 (233 pg/mL) was also observed. Muscle enzymes were clearly high (creatine phosphokinase at 8720 U/L and myoglobin at 2079 ng/mL). Ferritin and lactate dehydrogenase values were also high (at 2603 ng/mL and 541 U/L, respectively). A urinalysis showed haemoglobin with no erythrocytes in the sediment. A nasopharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 was positive. A multiplex PCR for respiratory viruses and HIV was negative. A CT scan of the lung revealed bilateral infiltrates with areas of consolidation and extensive ground-glass opacities.
The patient was admitted to the COVID-19 ward and oxygen was administered via nasal cannula. Aggressive hydration and bicarbonate therapy was started, as well as enoxaparin, azithromycin and ceftriaxone. The patient agreed to compassionate therapy, so hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir were started. His condition worsened on the third day of hospitalisation and he required invasive mechanical ventilation. Over the next two days, his condition continued to worsen, with fever, hypotension and high ventilation requirements. His C-reactive protein and interleukin-6 values also increased (to 26.9 mg/dL and 275 pg/mL, respectively). His family agreed to a compassionate regimen of tocilizumab. Accordingly, two doses of 400 mg tocilizumab i.v. were administered on days 5 and 6 of admission.
On the seventh day of admission his condition started to improve and he showed a decrease in lactate dehydrogenase, ferritin, C-reactive protein and procalcitonin values. He was extubated on the 12th day of admission. His clinical condition continued to improve and, after a negative SARS-CoV-2 test, he was discharged on day 16 after admission.


