A 35-year-old woman with no relevant past history attended the emergency department of the Hospital de la Fundación Jiménez Díaz (Madrid) on 14 April with acral purpuric lesions of three weeks' evolution. They had appeared as oedematous and erythematous areas concurrent with fever and cough, which lasted only two days. There was no history of diarrhoea, ageusia, hyposmia or dyspnoea. The patient reported that, after standing for a while, the skin on her feet became bluish in colour. On examination, the pedial pulse was not palpable and purplish areas could be seen on the dorsum of several toes of both feet. An ultrasound ruled out vascular thrombosis. An RT-PCR assay for SARS-CoV-2 from nasopharyngeal swab and an immunochromatographic assay for serum IgG and IgM antibodies, performed on the same day, were negative. A skin biopsy obtained in the emergency department showed mild perivascular and periannexal lymphocytic inflammation and focal microvascular thrombosis. Mild erythrocytic extravasation and ancillary evidence of endothelial injury was seen, but no overt vasculitis was observed. Using a commercial kit (SARS-CoV/SARS-CoV-2 spicule 1A9, GeneTex Inc., Irvine, California, USA), optimised in our laboratory, proteins of the viral spicule were clearly detected by conventional immunohistochemistry as fine to coarse, bright red granular deposits in the cytoplasm of eccrine (excretory and secretory) cells and cutaneous dermal vessels. 
Relevant negative and positive controls were performed: adult tonsil, a sample of erythema pernio from early 2019, biopsies of inflammatory dermatoses not associated with COVID-19 and antibody replacement with saline as negative controls, as well as a postmortem lung sample from a COVID-19 patient as a positive control. Perivascular deposits of C5b9, C3 and C1q were observed in an immunofluorescence study of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. Treatment with low molecular weight heparin and low dose aspirin was started; the lesions healed and at the time of the last follow-up (7 June), the patient had fully recovered and the pedial pulse was palpable. A second serological study (two months after onset of illness), this time by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), was negative for SARS-CoV-2 IgG and IgM.

