A 19-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with fever (38.5°C) of 4 days' duration, followed by chest pain and skin rash. She had tachycardia (120 bpm) and an oxygen saturation of 97% on room air. Chest and abdominal examination was normal. Skin examination revealed an exanthem consisting of confluent, slightly erythematous macules affecting the trunk and extremities. On the palms and soles, the macules coalesced to form clearly demarcated areas of erythema, with islands of unaffected skin. Chest X-ray and chest CT scan yielded no relevant findings. An electrocardiogram revealed sinus tachycardia and diffuse ST-segment elevation; the troponin T value was 367 ng/L. The electrocardiogram showed normal ventricular activity, with no signs of pericardial effusion. Acute myopericarditis was diagnosed. Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis (18.2 x 10 9/L) with 6% lymphocytes and normal haemoglobin, thrombocyte and lactate dehydrogenase values. C-reactive protein (23.10 mg/L), D-dimer (1095 ng/mL) and fibrinogen (974 mg/dL) values were high. Tests for autoimmune diseases were negative. Serological tests ruled out Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, Coxsackie virus, parvovirus B19, hepatitis A-B-C virus, Treponema pallidum and HIV infections. Blood cultures were negative. A PCR test from a nasopharyngeal swab sample was positive for COVID-19 and negative for adenovirus, other coronaviruses, human enterovirus, influenza virus and parainfluenza virus. Treatment was initiated with ceftriaxone, low molecular weight heparin, acetylsalicylic acid, pantoprazole, hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir. Antiviral therapy and hydroxychloroquine were discontinued after 2 days due to the onset of nausea, diarrhoea and anaemia. Colchicine (0.5 mg twice daily) was started, with complete resolution of skin lesions, normalisation of ECG and progressive apyrexia. On day 8, a nasopharyngeal swab was negative for COVID-19 and the patient was discharged.

