A 21-year-old man presented to the emergency department with fever, cough, dyspnoea, diarrhoea, nausea, headache and nasal congestion of 4 days' duration. Apart from a history of hypertension, pre-diabetes and class I obesity, the patient was in good health and reported no smoking, alcohol or drug use and no recent travel. Vital signs showed temperature 37.5°C, blood pressure 116/57 mmHg, pulse 76 bpm and oxygen saturation 95% on room air. Physical examination revealed clear lungs and unobstructed breathing. Neurological examination was normal. Chest radiographs showed bilateral patchy alveolar infiltrates without lobar consolidation. A nasopharyngeal swab was performed and a set of respiratory pathogen tests were negative for all of them. In addition, oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal swab samples were sent to an external private laboratory for real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing. The patient was discharged with pulse oximetry monitoring, home isolation instructions and strict precautions in case of return.
Over the next 24 hours, the patient experienced increased feelings of dizziness and a drop in oxygen saturation to around 85%, according to pulse oximetry. He returned to the emergency department febrile (temperature 39.1°C), with mild tachycardia (102 bpm), tachypnoea (28 bpm) and hypoxia (89% on room air). Chest X-rays showed increased bilateral alveolar infiltrates, while a complete blood count revealed lymphocytopenia (lymphocyte count 0.7 K/mm3). He was admitted with oxygen therapy and monitoring; oxygenation was reduced from 2 L via nasal cannula to room air. He was discharged on day 4 of hospitalisation and external tests confirmed COVID-19 the day after discharge.
Initially, he evolved well during convalescence at home, but on the 16th day of illness, he began to suffer right facial weakness and numbness. Within 24 hours, the symptoms became bilateral and culminated in severe dysarthria, which necessitated transfer to the emergency department. The patient also reported hypogeusia. Neurological examination showed a pattern of bilateral lower facial motor weakness, with normal cranial nerves, normal strength, sensation in all extremities and intact myotatic reflex. He was admitted for observation and underwent brain and temporal bone MRI and fluoroscopic lumbar puncture to obtain CSF samples. CSF was negative for staining and bacterial cultures and revealed normal glucose values (65 mg/dL), absence of leukocytes and mild proteinorrachia (49 mg/dL). An MRI revealed bilateral anomalous enhancement of the facial and abducens nerves as well as the right ocular motor nerve.
The patient was discharged with stable facial weakness, no worsening of symptoms and an oxygen saturation of 99% on room air. An outpatient neurological follow-up was agreed, awaiting various serological and spinal analytical results. On the 19th day of illness, he reported new bilateral subjective lower extremity weakness, bilateral upper extremity paraesthesia and persistent facial weakness, leading to readmission for further follow-up and treatment. A new neurological examination revealed no change in facial weakness, but new bilateral grade 4/5 deltoid and hip flexor weakness and diffuse areflexia. A complete spinal MRI revealed no suspicious spinal cord abnormalities and no abnormal spinal or cauda equina enhancements. Electromyographic and nerve conduction analyses showed findings consistent with an acute sensorimotor polyneuropathy with demyelinating and axonal features.
For religious reasons, the patient refused i.v. immunoglobulin treatment and underwent treatment with 5 cycles of plasmapheresis, which was well tolerated with slight improvement of facial weakness and paraesthesia. CSF and serology results remained negative except for herpes simplex virus, immunoglobulin G and immunoglobulin M; the patient was discharged for rehabilitation in general hospitalisation. He refused a new lumbar puncture prior to discharge.


