A 53-year-old man with no medical or psychiatric history presented to the emergency department following an apparent suicide attempt by ingesting an unknown amount of bleach from a bottle. On initial examination, he was conscious and oriented, although uncooperative due to epigastric pain. He refused to answer most of the primary care team's questions. Examination of the mouth revealed abrasion of the right lower lip, with no oropharyngeal lesions. The wife, who accompanied him, stated that she was puzzled by her husband's action. The wife reported that her husband had been "in good health, normal, happy and had never done anything like this before". She also stated that he had not complained of fever, cough or had any recent illness. She did not know why her husband might have ingested bleach. The patient was uncooperative during the psychiatric interview because of his apparent cultural stigma. He repeated that "I don't need any shrink; I am not crazy". The urine toxicology screen was negative. Our initial recommendation was psychiatric hospitalisation after medical clearance. While in the emergency room, he developed fever (temperature: 38.7 oC), tachycardia (pulse: 120 bpm) and increased transaminases and urea nitrogen. Chest X-ray revealed an opacity in the upper lobe of the right lung, indicative of possible COVID-19 pneumonia. The patient was transferred to the hospital ward for treatment. Treatment was started with 1000 mg ceftriaxone i.v. daily, 250 mg azithromycin orally daily and 200 mg hydroxychloroquine orally twice daily. For the next 5 days he remained uncooperative, refused meals and reported lack of appetite; he also refused i.v. medication on occasion. The nursing staff noted that the patient was "singing to himself" but could be given verbal cues. He denied planning or attempting suicide. Infection with coronavirus acute respiratory distress syndrome 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was confirmed by real-time RT-PCR from nasopharyngeal swab. There were no focal neurological deficits or apparent cognitive impairment. On day 6 of hospitalisation a Montreal Cognitive Assessment Test was performed. The patient scored 26 out of 30; he lost one point on the visuospatial test, one point for not naming the rhinoceros, one point on the 7 by 7 subtraction and one point on the delayed recall. A total of 3 doses of 5 mg of intramuscular olanzapine were administered intermittently, to manage the patient's nervousness, on days 3, 7 and 8. On day 6 of hospitalisation, he presented hypoxaemic respiratory failure due to COVID-19. He also presented chills and continued with hyperthermia. He began to improve on day 10 of hospitalisation, with less need for oxygen therapy, and was more cooperative during examinations. On the 12th day of hospitalisation, a non-contrast cranial CT scan was performed, with irrelevant results. No lumbar puncture was performed. On the 12th day of hospitalisation he was able to discuss his auditory hallucinations in detail. He reported that his initial symptom was an auditory hallucination in the form of a repeated command by a single unrecognisable voice, which started one day before his bleach ingestion. He was unsure of the sex of the voice, but noted that it sounded "demonic" and that he heard it externally. The voice initially told him to "jump off the bridge" and then "go to the kitchen and drink bleach". He reported feeling confused and terrified. He explained that, in the end, he ingested bleach not to commit suicide, but because "the voice was getting louder and louder and more insistent". He denied having suffered from auditory hallucinations in the past, as well as the repetition of the hallucinations during hospitalisation. He also denied having used drugs, alcohol or tobacco. He denied having had suicidal thoughts or attempts, currently or in the past. He was aware of future goals and situations and was affectively reactive. He denied past or current symptoms of mood or anxiety disturbances. Since the implementation of the confinement directives, he reported that he had been able to continue his work as an office worker; his wife, a school teacher, and his 21-year-old son, a web developer, also worked from home. Prior to hospitalisation, he had experienced some distress about COVID-19, but said he felt fortunate to be able to be at home and tried to "keep his mind and body busy". He denied having acute stressors in his personal relationships, work or financial situation. The patient's anamnesis and the absence of previous psychiatric illnesses was confirmed by information obtained from his wife and general practitioner. The psychiatric team authorised his discharge to a sub-acute rehabilitation centre. The diagnostic impression at discharge was psychotic disorder associated with another medical process.

