On 25 April 2020, a 52-year-old man presented to the emergency department of a nearby hospital with a fever of 40°C, cough and dyspnoea. His condition deteriorated rapidly, and he required endotracheal intubation. Tracheal aspirate detected SARS-CoV-2. In addition, bronchial aspirate samples showed growth of Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter dijkshoorniae. Blood cultures showed growth of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium and Staphylococcus epidermidis. Accordingly, a broad-spectrum antibiotic regimen with meropenem and linezolid was started, but the patient continued with daily fever up to 40°C, with no response to antipyretics or antibiotics. The patient's clinical condition worsened further, despite a pressure-controlled invasive ventilation setting, so he was transferred to our ICU on 13 May 2020, for possible application of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). 
For evaluation of pulmonary manifestations of COVID-19 and in preparation for possible ECMO, a CT scan was performed on 13 and 14 May. Chest CT showed bilateral ground-glass opacities, consolidations and cobblestone pattern typical of COVID-19. As a potential sign of subacute manifestation, airway changes, pleural changes, fibrosis and nodules were observed. Careful modifications of ventilation settings made ECMO unnecessary. 
Differential cytology revealed a severe decrease in CD4+ cells (12 per μL, equivalent to 2%, CD4+/CD8+ ratio of 0.08). The lack of CD4+ cells together with the fact that the patient is a male with same-sex relationships, led to the suspicion of possible late-onset HIV carrier. RT-PCR for HIV-1 was positive, with a viral load of 360,000 copies HIV-1 RNA per mL. The presence of fine reticular changes on his chest CT, together with an increased LDH, also raised the possibility of Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia as an additional diagnosis. Bronchoalveolar lavage was positive for P. jirovecii and the patient was treated with i.v. trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (20 mg trimethoprim component per kg body weight per day, four times daily) along with 50 mg prednisone daily to avoid adverse immune reactions in pneumocystis pneumonia and immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). 
Following AIDS diagnosis, ART consisting of darunavir (600 mg twice daily), ritonavir (100 mg twice daily) and tenofovir/emtricitabine (450/400 mg once daily), orally, was rapidly initiated. A concurrent CMV infection (170,000 U/ml blood) was treated with ganciclovir at 5 mg/kg body weight. Antibacterial treatment with meronepem and linezolid was maintained for 7 days. 
Superinfections with hepatitis B, C and syphilis were ruled out. On 15, 18 and 20 May, the patient tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 from bronchial aspirates. Cerebrospinal fluid tests showed 5,600 copies/mL HIV-1, but no evidence of JC virus, bacterial meningitis or encephalitis. 
Over the next two weeks, his condition improved considerably. Noradrenaline administration could be terminated three days after the start of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole treatment. The antiviral therapy had no apparent side effects; in particular, creatinine clearance and liver activity remained stable during the following weeks. CMV copies dropped below 450 U/mL two weeks after starting ganciclovir treatment on 14 May. With ART, viral load decreased to 2,800 copies/mL (equivalent to a 2.11 decrease on a logarithmic scale) on 25 May 2020. HIV-1 genotyping showed no relevant drug resistance. After convalescence and with the ability to swallow adequately, ART was switched to a single-tablet regimen to maintain patient compliance and reduce the number of pills per day. The patient continues to improve. He no longer requires mechanical ventilation and was discharged from ICU with 2 L/min of oxygen therapy on 4 June.

