Mr G, a 43-year-old man with no relevant history of drug addiction or personal or family psychiatric history, presented to the emergency department with headache and fever. On examination, his temperature was 37.8°C, oxygen saturation was 99% on room air and all other vital signs were within normal limits. It was noted that she might have COVID-19, but she did not meet the criteria for testing at that time, so she was discharged and advised to be confined to her home,
Nine days later, he returned to the ED with fever and dyspnoea. On examination, his temperature was 39°C, with tachycardia at 110 bpm, oxygen saturation was 99% on room air and all other vitals were within normal limits. A chest X-ray was performed, which showed no acute cardiopulmonary abnormalities. A nasopharyngeal swab for COVID-19 PCR was sent to an external laboratory. The patient was discharged with a 5-day prescription of oral azithromycin (500 mg on day 1 and then 250 mg on days 2-5), benzonatate ad libitum for cough and albuterol inhalations ad libitum.
Three days later (12 days after his first admission), he returned to the ED for the third time, with high back pain and spasms. He also reported distress and insomnia because of his concern about COVID-19. The patient was afebrile, oxygen saturation was 96% on room air and all other vitals were within normal limits. He was notified that his COVID-19 test by PCR was negative. He also reported that he had complied with the azithromycin regimen and was advised to complete his treatment at home. His dorsalgia was considered to be musculoskeletal, secondary to persistent cough, and he was discharged with a prescription of methocarbamol 750 mg 4 times a day for 7 days.
Four days later (15 days after the first ED admission), the patient's wife called his GP's office. She reported that she was concerned that her husband had been acting strangely since he had been tested for COVID-19 a week earlier. She had noticed that he was talking to himself, not eating and drinking properly and not showering. She was also concerned that he often stared at the wall and was shivering and sweating without fever. Later that day a telephone visit was made with a primary care doctor, but the patient did not get on the phone because he feared the doctor was "of the devil". The doctor and wife decided to take him back to the emergency room.
In the emergency room, the patient needed the help of two people to transfer him from a wheelchair to the stretcher because of his weakness. His temperature was 37.9°C, pulse was 107 bpm, oxygen saturation was 96% on room air and all other vitals were within normal limits. His blood glucose was normal, as were serum electrolytes, procalcitonin, C-reactive protein, creatine kinase and lactic acid. Serum drug test was negative. Haematological tests showed a normal total leukocyte count, with 3% immature granulocytes and a high thrombocyte count (551 TH/μL). Liver function tests showed an alanine transaminase of 281 U/L and aspartate transaminase of 79 U/L. His international normalised ratio was elongated to 1.5. A new PCR test for COVID-19 was positive. Chest X-ray showed no acute cardiopulmonary involvement. A non-contrast cranial CT scan was performed which also showed no acute intracranial abnormalities. A lumbar puncture was then performed after administration of 1 mg i.v. midazolam; cerebrospinal fluid analysis was irrelevant, with no polymorphic leukocytes or Gram-stained organisms, 2 erythrocytes/μL and 1 leukocyte/μL in the leukocyte formula, and protein and glucose values of 32 mg/dL and 69 mg/dL, respectively. The patient was admitted the same night to the general hospital ward for follow-up and treatment of his mental alteration.
The following day (day 2 of hospitalisation), the psychiatric team was consulted. On that day, the patient was alert and oriented with respect to people, place and time, but was slow to respond verbally, showed hypertonia and had difficulty holding up his limbs; he also had intense sweating. His vital signs were also relevant with a temperature of up to 37.4°C, labile blood pressure (from 107/70 to 156/103 in 12 hours), an episode of tachypnoea with a respiratory rate of 36 bpm and an oxygen saturation of between 93 and 95% on room air. In accordance with hospital policy at the time, to minimise exposure and transmission, the psychiatry team did not assess the patient in person, due to coronavirus 2 acute respiratory distress syndrome, and instead attempted to speak to him via the hospital room telephone. However, the patient did not respond and his nurse reported that he was too weak to hold the phone to his ear. Based on the information available at the time, the psychiatric team recommended 50 mg quetiapine orally before bedtime to treat insomnia and possible psychotic symptoms. Ultimately, the patient did not receive the medication because he was unable to take oral medication. A urinary catheter was placed because he had not urinated during hospitalisation. The urine drug profile, obtained after catheter placement, was positive only for benzodiazepines.
The following morning (day 3 of hospitalisation), the patient's nurse noted that he was in bed in an abnormal position, with his feet above the bed and his arms in a decortication posture. He was given 1 mg of lorazepam i.v. in preparation for brain and spinal MRI and was observed 30 minutes after administration. He was sitting up in bed, conversing with his roommate. He was no longer sweating and asked for something to drink. At this point he told the nurse that he had been hearing voices "trying to take him to hell". He underwent MRI, which showed no T2 or FLAIR findings, leptomeningeal contrast enhancement, white matter changes or atrophy.
The patient was initially treated with 1 mg lorazepam i.v. 3 times a day and, on day 5 of hospitalisation was stabilised at 1 mg lorazepam orally 4 times a day. During this time he showed no further signs of catatonia; he continued to be non-hypertonic and conversational and ate and drank adequately.
Lorazepam was reduced to 1 mg twice daily on the day of discharge, on the tenth day of hospitalisation. At this time, the patient was fluent in speech, could move all limbs without difficulty and no psychosis was evident. 4 days after discharge he was assessed by telephone by the psychiatric team; he had no motor or speech difficulties and no psychosis was evident, but he had trouble sleeping. Oral lorazepam was reduced to 1 mg before bedtime. Six days after discharge, the patient was evaluated by his general practitioner; he continued to report sleep disturbances, as well as feelings of sadness and anhedonia. His wife stated that he had improved but was not yet fully recovered, as he needed stimulation to engage in conversation and to perform his work. In the subsequent psychiatric follow-up, 1 mg of lorazepam by mouth was maintained because of psychomotor slowing, as well as 6 mg of melatonin at night for insomnia.

