A 51-year-old Italian man with a history of hypertension presented to the emergency department with a dry cough, fatigue, dyspnoea and fever. He denied having travelled and had no chills, sweating, chest pain or changes in his frequency of urination and defecation. He reported several episodes of epigastric pain and nausea that had partially improved with omeprazole two days prior to hospitalisation. On admission to the ED, physical examination revealed a temperature of 39.6°C, respiratory rate of 26 r.p.m., blood pressure of 141/89 mmHg, pulse of 97 bpm and oxygen saturation of 91% (> 95%) on room air. Arterial blood gases indicated a pH of 7.44 (7.36-7.44), oxygen partial pressure of 79 mmHg (75-100 mmHg) and carbon dioxide partial pressure of 39 mmHg (35-45 mmHg). Chest auscultation revealed wheezing and rhonchi. Agonal breathing and a symmetrical decrease in thoracic expansion were also noted.
Complete blood count was normal except for lymphocytopenia (929 lymphocytes/microlitre). As pneumonia was suspected, oxygen therapy, continuous electronic monitoring of vital signs and administration of i.v. infused acetaminophen, ceftriaxone and vancomycin were started. A nasopharyngeal swab was obtained for testing for SARS-associated coronavirus by RT-PCR; the result was positive. In coordination with the emergency services, the hospital management and staff decided to discontinue the patient's antibiotic treatment. The patient was then transferred to an isolation unit for clinical observation.
On the first night of admission, the patient's condition continued to deteriorate and further evaluation was performed. Physical examination showed a respiratory rate of 29 r.p.m., blood pressure 134/87 mmHg, pulse 120 l.p.m. and oxygen saturation 84%. Continuous positive mechanical ventilation was applied and the antiviral drug remdesivir was administered to improve oxygen saturation and halt disease progression.
On the second day of hospitalisation, the patient remained febrile (temperature 39.1°C) and hypoxaemic (oxygen saturation 81%) and required mechanical ventilation. A posteroanterior chest X-ray showed bilateral and peripheral ground-glass and consolidative opacities. These radiological findings explained the progressive deterioration of the patient's respiratory status and led to a diagnosis of ARDS. Otherwise, electrocardiographic, troponin and creatine kinase tests were normal.
The following day, the patient's condition continued to worsen and no improvement was observed. On examination, he appeared ill; his vital signs were: temperature 37.8°C, pressure 138/93 mmHg, pulse 93 bpm and oxygen saturation 83% on ventilator. According to existing guidelines, additional therapy was started. The patient's medication was recovered and hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin were added. On the following day, no significant improvement was noted.
On the fifth day of admission, a thorough physical examination showed normal vital signs, except for an oxygen saturation of 87% and a respiratory rate of 26 bpm. Of note, continuous electronic monitoring revealed extensive and diffuse ST-segment elevation, prompting the medical team to schedule an electrocardiogram, coronary angiography and echocardiogram. Coronary angiography confirmed a normal blood supply to the heart, with no signs of arterial blockages. However, the electrocardiogram showed diffuse ST-segment elevation, while the transthoracic echocardiogram indicated cardiomegaly with a clear decrease in ventricular systolic activity and an ejection fraction of 20%. High values of troponin (0.29 ng/mL), creatine kinase (20.1 ng/mL) and N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide (BNP; 1,287 pg/mL) were also detected. These results indicated acute myopericarditis, so inotropic support (dobutamine) was started.
On days 6 and 7 of hospitalisation, the patient's vital signs showed clear improvement. Physical examination showed oedema with bilateral pitting of the lower extremities, blood pressure 130/83 mmHg, pulse 88 l.p.m. and oxygen saturation 89%. The patient continued with continuous mechanical ventilation and the usual medication. In addition, a course of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, indomethacin, 50 mg three times a day) was started on the seventh day of hospitalisation to treat acute myopericarditis.
Overall, the patient's medical condition worsened over the following days, indicating a clear lack of response to ongoing therapy. His ECG continued to show diffuse ST-segment elevation and pericardial friction rub was audible on cardiac auscultation. Analytical tests for cardiac biomarkers revealed increased troponin (18 ng/mL) and creatine kinase (14.7 ng/mL), indicating myocardial injury and recurrent myopericarditis. Accordingly, methylprednisolone and colchicine were added to the ongoing medication plan. A new echocardiogram revealed a clearly decreased ejection fraction (23%) but no evidence of cardiac tamponade. A chest X-ray suggested a worsening of the underlying ARDS, with bilateral pleural effusion. The patient continued to be treated with an aggressive regimen of rehydration, dobutamine, NSAIDs, antibiotics and antivirals.


