A 79-year-old Caucasian man was admitted to our hospital with general weakness, malaise and non-productive cough. He had had these symptoms for 8 days prior to admission. 18 years prior to admission, he was diagnosed with autoimmune aortitis of the abdominal aorta, which currently would have been classified as single organ vasculitis according to the 2012 Chapel Hill consensus definition. The patient had undergone several immunosuppressive treatments with glucocorticoids, either alone or in combination with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine, as well as six cycles of i.v. cyclophosphamide until 14 months prior to the current condition. At that time, the patient was diagnosed with rapidly progressing urothelial carcinoma of the bladder, stage T2N0M0 (with infiltration of the bladder musculature), having presented with macrohaematuria. He underwent transurethral cystectomy and received intermittent radiotherapy with a maximum dose of 59.4 Gy and concurrent chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin. During the 8 months prior to admission, she was without immunosuppressive or antineoplastic treatment. Other medical history was inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, stage 3a chronic kidney disease, Parkinson's disease, osteoporosis and intermittent atrial fibrillation. On admission on 6 March 2020, the patient's temperature was 36.8°C, blood pressure 130/80 mmHg and pulse 80 bpm. Respiratory rate was 16 bpm and oxygen saturation was 94% on room air. The white blood cell count indicated leukocytopenia with an absolute lymphocytopenia of 370 lymphocytes/mm3 (reference interval 1,090-2,990), mild thrombocytopenia with 102,000/mm3 (reference interval 150,000-350,000), a C-reactive protein value of 75.1 mg/l (reference value < 8.2) and a lactate dehydrogenase value of 418 U/l (reference value < 248). The test for anti-cytoplasmic neutrophil antibodies (ANCA), antinuclear antibodies (ANA) and anti-GBM antibodies was negative. Chest X-ray was normal. Blood cultures were performed. The patient was given 2 litres of oxygen per minute via nasal cannula and admitted for further evaluation. A chest CT scan revealed extensive ground-glass opacities, indicative of acute interstitial pneumonia. Four days after admission, the patient presented with a temperature of 38.3°C and his respiratory status worsened, with an oxygen saturation of 89% with 2 litres of oxygen per minute, as well as haemoptysis. Blood gases confirmed hypoxaemia with a PaO2 of 61 mmHg and hyperventilation with a PaCO2 of 31 mmHg. He was given i.v. piperacillin with tazobactam, cotrimoxazole and roxithromycin orally. A bronchoscopy showed signs of chronic bronchitis with progressively haemorrhagic bronchial fluid from successive equal samples during bronchoalveolar lavage, consistent with diffuse alveolar haemorrhage (DAH). Lavage revealed a total number of 10x105 cells per ml, mainly consisting of alveolar macrophages (80%) and 1000 erythrocytes per mm3. Gram stains and PCR for Legionella spp, Chlamydia spp, Mycoplasma spp, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus 1 and 2, influenza A and B virus, respiratory syncytial virus, Pneumocystis jiroveci and non-tuberculous mycobacteria were all negative. The patient was transferred to the ICU, where non-invasive ventilation was started. Finally, a real-time PCR for SARS-CoV-2 from a nasopharyngeal swab was positive, while other possible causes of pneumonia were ruled out. Over the next 24 hours, the patient progressively worsened to the point where invasive mechanical ventilation was considered indicated. In accordance with the patient's wishes, he was not intubated and palliative care was given, with which he died shortly afterwards. Diagnosis: ADHF due to pulmonary infection with SARS-CoV-2. 

