A 68-year-old man with a history of arterial hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure, sleep apnoea-hypopnoea syndrome, ischaemic heart disease and chronic kidney disease G3a A3 according to KDIGO 2012 of probable diabetic aetiology with baseline serum creatinine levels of 1.3-1.5 mg/dl. He reported a recent trip to a SARS-CoV-2 risk area and came to the Hospital Emergency Department with a 24-hour history of fever and associated dry cough. A nasopharyngeal swab was performed and tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. On the day of admission to the hospital's Emergency Department (day 1), dyspnoea on moderate exertion was added to the symptoms, so it was decided to admit him to hospital and transfer him almost immediately to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) due to a torpid evolution. His respiratory symptoms were compatible with bilateral pneumonia complicated by acute respiratory distress syndrome and multi-organ failure: hypotension (mean arterial pressure 60 mmHg), tachypnoea, use of accessory muscles and O2 saturation of 89% despite the use of a reservoir mask (Fi O299%). He required mechanical ventilation and inotropic drugs (noradrenaline and dopamine), oliguria (10 ml/hour) which initially responded to intravenous diuretics, and at the same time, deterioration of renal function up to serum creatinine of 3.4 mg/dl, so that on day 4 it was decided to start continuous venovenous haemodiafiltration, which was maintained until day 26. He received treatment with hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin, lopinavir/ritonavir, interferon beta, ceftriaxone, levofloxacin, methylpredinisolone and anticoagulation with heparin, intermittently, due to a tendency to haemorrhage. From day 21 to day 36 he was treated with cloxacillin and cefepime, successively, due to the presence of methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus in the bronchoaspirate and worsening of inflammation parameters. Given that he presented anasarca and persistent serum creatinine levels of 2 mg/dl and urea 162 mg/dl, intermittent haemo-dialysis was started with a Theranova 400®1.7m2 filter (Baxter International Inc., Deerfield, IL, USA) with a QB of 270-300 ml/min and a QD 500 ml/min, requiring only two sessions (day 36 and 38). Given the clinical improvement, he was discharged from the ICU on day 47 with serum creatinine levels of 1.3 mg/dl. 

