An otherwise healthy 16-year-old adolescent presented to our emergency department at a regional hospital with symptoms of hyperthermia and abdominal pain, fatigue and sore throat. It was relevant that he and several of his siblings shared a history of suspected exposure to a patient with coronavirus 2019 disease 3 weeks prior to presentation.
On examination, he had signs of acute pharyngitis, non-purulent conjunctivitis, diffuse abdominal pain on palpation and extensive maculopapular rash (on the palms of the hands, knees and ankles), without haemodynamic or respiratory involvement. He was admitted to the paediatric ward with suspected scarlet fever and then presented with headache and nuchal rigidity. A CT scan showed normal results, and a lumbar puncture was performed. Cerebrospinal fluid showed mild pleocytosis and normal glycorrhachia, and was negative for bacterial and viral pathogens. It should be noted that 2 nasopharyngeal swabs for 
SARS-CoV-2 were negative, as well as an extensive panel of tests for infectious diseases.
On his third day of hospitalisation, he developed thermal shock, was transferred to the local paediatric ICU and required intubation and haemodynamic support with epinephrine and milrinone.
Laboratory results were relevant for a high troponin-I value (922 ng/L) and a disproportionately high pro-BNP value (> 35,000 pg/mL; analytical limit). An echocardiogram showed mildly reduced systolic left ventricular function with ejection fraction of 50% and mild mitral regurgitation. Coronary arteries were normal. As at this time the clinical picture was consistent with atypical nephropathy, the patient was treated with i.v. immunoglobulin and high-dose aspirin, and transferred to the paediatric ICU of our tertiary centre.
During his stay, he was intubated and subjected to mechanical ventilation, and required variable doses of inotropic and vasopressor support. Echocardiogram showed normal systolic left ventricular function, with moderate concentric mitral regurgitation and mild aortic regurgitation.
Laboratory tests showed a high C-reactive protein value (24 mg/dL), mild normocytic anaemia, borderline thrombocytopenia, mild coagulation disturbance (INR 2.23) with normal fibrinogen values and high D-dimer value (3573 ng/mL). Blood cultures and respiratory viral panels were negative in sputum and blood, with a positive nasopharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 and serological confirmation of previous SARS-CoV-2 infection, with positive IgG and IgA (tested in serum obtained before i.v. IG treatment). Rheumatological examination revealed very low values of complement factors C3 and C4 (26 and < 1.68 mg/dL, respectively), as well as negative antinuclear antibodies.
On the following day, the patient presented with clonus; an emergency brain MRI and MRA showed diffuse and small siderosis foci with low signal in the subcortical white matter of both hemispheres and the corpus callosum. In addition to haemodynamic involvement, the patient presented with acute respiratory distress syndrome and small bilateral pleural effusions. With the provisional diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 associated resistant atypical Kawasaki, he was treated with an additional dose of i.v. IG and a 5-day course of pulsed methylprednisolone. Given the signs of CNS microhaemorrhages, anticoagulant therapy was not initiated. During the following 3 days, the cardiovascular and pulmonary alterations resolved and the patient was successfully extubated. Neurologically, he regained full consciousness and general strength improved rapidly. As abdominal pain and vomiting persisted, an abdominal CT scan was performed and showed signs of mild pancreatitis and moderate ascites. Further analytical tests showed a gradual decrease in troponin I, pro-BNP and inflammation markers, as well as an increase in C3 and C4 to normal values. At a follow-up examination 2 weeks after discharge, the echocardiogram showed a mild coronary thickening of 3.5 mm, with a small coronary aneurysm in the right coronary artery. Mitral and aortic insufficiency had resolved, and cardiac activity was normal. Neurological examination was normal except for general muscle weakness.

