A 63-year-old man with no psychiatric history was admitted to hospital with bilateral pneumonia and a positive PCR test for COVID-19 (30 March 2020) and was diagnosed with COVID-19. He also presented with delirium during hospitalisation, which improved in parallel with the respiratory disorder, leading to the patient's discharge (8 April 2020). Outpatient treatment with risperidone 2mg per day was maintained, but the extravagant delirium and incoherent speech and thinking did not abate, even after adjustment of the antipsychotic treatment, so the patient was sent back to hospital (15 April 2020). 
On this second admission, a new COVID-19 PCR test was performed, with a positive result. The respiratory examination was normal. Increased D-dimer concentration was detected in blood tests; a CT angiography showed a low risk of pulmonary thromboembolism, which was considered to be associated with COVID-19 and treated with anticoagulants. At the first psychiatric evaluation, the patient reported ideas of changes in his body, such as the absence of an anus, which is why he decided not to eat anything and thus avoid exploding. Attention and orientation to fluctuating time and space were initially noted, but without other usual features of delirium. A cranial MRI with contrast revealed no relevant findings. Finally a diagnosis of psychotic disorder caused by another pathological process (COVID-19) was made, according to DSM-5 criteria. During the follow-up of the case by the psychiatric department, the content of the delusions changed (the patient explained that most of his relatives had died) and auditory and verbal hallucinations appeared. The dose of risperidone was adjusted over the next few days from 2.5 mg per day to up to 6 mg per day. By 30 April 2020, the patient had almost fully recovered, with no delusions or hallucinations and was conscious about his previous psychotic symptoms, so he was discharged and referred to his outpatient psychiatric unit for follow-up.  

