84-year-old woman with a history of arrhythmias treated with pacemaker, pulmonary embolism treated with rivaroxaban, arterial hypertension and rheumatoid arthritis treated with methotrexate (15 mg per week) and corticosteroids (prednisone, 13 mg/day). She presented with symptoms of COVID-19, with fever, asthenia, ageusia and respiratory signs with dry cough, polypnoea (respiratory rate 32/min) and oxygen saturation of 93% on 3 litres of oxygen. She was hospitalised in a COVID-19 ICU on 16 April 2020, with a diagnosis of COVID-19 based on the results of a chest CT scan showing lesions such as cobblestone pattern and ground glass opacities greater than 50% and bilateral. SARS-CoV-2 testing by RT-PCR from a nasopharyngeal swab was negative twice. These were probably false negatives due to incorrect sampling.  The patient had typical COVID-19 symptoms and no other causes of infection were found. Sputum samples could not be collected. The C-reactive protein concentration was 160 mg/L and the lymphocyte count was 0.13 Giga/L. The patient received ceftriaxone for seven days, rovamycin for five days and methotrexate treatment was discontinued and replaced by increased corticosteroids (prednisone, 60 mg/day) and oxygen therapy up to four litres. Clinical and analytical improvement was noted, allowing oxygen therapy to be withdrawn, with normalisation of the inflammatory syndrome allowing the patient to be transferred to a rehabilitation unit for COVID-19 on 27 April, with prednisone at 30 mg/day. On 6 May, there was a sudden respiratory deterioration, with saturation of 80% requiring oxygen therapy, dry cough and fever. Nasopharyngeal samples for SARS-CoV-2 testing by RT-PCR were positive (Ct of 16.9 and 14.7 on 8 and 11 May, respectively). Viral cultures on vero cells were performed and were positive. Virological sequencing has been performed and the strain belongs to the B1 (European) lineage according to the pangolin classification. A CT scan revealed severe bilateral pneumonia. On readmission, tests showed clear lymphocytopenia at 0.23 Giga/L, C-reactive protein at 146 mg/L and IL-6 at 201 ng/L. A rise in neutralising antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 was observed between 8 and 15 May (dilutions of < 10 to 40). The patient received ceftriaxone and methylprednisolone 60 mg/day from 8 May and high-flow oxygen. Cotrimoxazole was added on 19 May to rule out possible pneumocyst superinfection. After validation at an interdisciplinary meeting, the patient received a transfusion of COVID-19 convalescent plasma on 16 May. However, the respiratory status worsened with massive desaturation despite 20 L of oxygen; the patient finally died on 23 May.

