A 57-year-old man diagnosed with relapsing multiple sclerosis since 1996. He started multiple sclerosis modifier therapy with interferon beta 1-2, which was replaced by FNG in 2013 because of disease activity (persistent clinical and MRI inflammatory activity despite previous treatment with interferon beta 1-a). The last score on the expanded disability status scale was 6.0, mainly due to left hemiparesis. His lymphocyte count in the previous year was between 700 and 900 per microlitre, and the last MRI in 2019 showed a moderate morbidity and mortality burden, with no clinical or MRI signs of disease activity. The last test before admission gave 500 lymphocytes/μL. 
He suffered a fall at home in the first week of March 2020. Since then, he started complaining of dorsalgia in the dorsal-lumbar area, which became more severe when moving the trunk. On 25 March, he developed fever and malaise. He was admitted to hospital with a temperature of 38oC. Neurological examination showed no change from the last evaluation at the multiple sclerosis clinic. 
Blood tests showed high C-reactive protein (12.83 mg/dL [normal range: < 0.50]) and lymphocytopenia (500/μL). Chest X-ray was unremarkable, but confirmed a fracture of the sixth thoracic vertebra. Real-time PCR for SARS-CoV-2 from a nasopharyngeal swab was positive, and treatment with hydroxychloroquine was initiated for 7 days. FNG was maintained and for the next three weeks he continued with intermittent fever, but without respiratory complications (pO2 82 mmHg, pCO2 35 mmHg) and normal chest X-rays. Because of the risk of vertebral instability, dorsal surgery was performed on 18 April without complications. Two days later, FNG was discontinued due to a low lymphocyte count (100/μL). After one week (day 30 from symptom onset), lymphocytes increased (800/μL), but the patient developed fever (38.5°C) and dyspnoea, which required oxygen via nasal cannula. A new chest X-ray was performed, which showed bilateral infiltrates. C-reactive protein remained elevated (6.93 mg/dL). At that time, pO2 was 70 mmHg and pCO2 was 36 mmHg. Other infectious causes were ruled out and PCR for SARS-CoV-2 remained positive. A delayed clinical exacerbation of COVID-19 was raised as the main possibility; therefore, methylprednisolone (80 md/day) was prescribed for one week. The patient improved progressively over the following week, 
he did not require further oxygen therapy but continued to have abnormal chest X-rays and positive nasopharyngeal smear CRP. FNG recovered after tapering methylprednisolone, with no further complications.

