A 76-year-old man with hypertension, dyslipidaemia and diabetes mellitus was admitted to our emergency department with fever, asthenia and low back pain of 2 weeks' evolution. On admission, he presented with hyperthermia, 120 l.p.m., oxygen saturation of 87% and 22 r.p.m. Laboratory tests showed lymphocytopenia and increased fibrinogen, D-dimer, creatinine and C-reactive protein. Chest X-ray showed unilobular opacities in the left lower lobe. On admission, treatment was started with azithromycin, hydroxychloroquine, ceftriaxone, methylprednisolone and enoxaparin at a dose of 40mg per day. 96 hours later, the patient continued to have fever, dyspnoea and tachypnoea, and required high-flow oxygen therapy to increase oxygen saturation to 92%. C-reactive protein, D-dimer, ferritin and IL-6 values increased progressively. Chest X-ray showed worsening with bilateral and multilobular opacities, so the dose of LMWH was increased to 60 mg per day and a single dose of tocilizumab was administered, without clinical improvement. On day 11 of admission (day 26 since the onset of symptoms), the patient presented with a sudden episode of loss of muscle strength in the right side of the body, with a fall. Examination showed global aphasia, oculocephalic deviation to the left and right faciobrachiofemoral hemiplegia. A non-contrast CT scan of the brain showed no evidence of acute haemorrhage, tumour effects or midline shift. Treatment with i.v. acetylsalicylic acid was started and the dose of LMWH was reduced to 40 mg per day, but no neurological improvement was observed. 48 hours later, a new non-contrast brain CT scan was performed, which showed signs compatible with complete ischaemic stroke of the left middle cerebral artery, with hyperdense vessel sign in the left intracranial internal carotid artery. CT angiography of the cerebral and carotid arteries was performed as a complementary study of the ischaemic stroke. It revealed complete occlusion of the left internal carotid artery and, fortuitously, two 8 mm intraluminal thrombi were identified in the ascending aorta. Fibrinolysis and emboloectomy were not considered due to the evolution of symptoms. The dose of LMWH was increased to anticoagulant doses and the patient was discharged to a convalescent centre for full rehabilitation. The intention was to maintain anticoagulant therapy for at least 3 months after the episode and to decide on specialised consultation after further re-evaluation with new clinical, analytical and imaging information, except for the occurrence of a serious adverse event or new scientific evidence supporting other therapeutic management.

