A 39-year-old male patient was admitted for a 15-day course of symptoms characterised by progressive loss of strength in the right arm, accompanied by dysarthria, holocranial headache refractory to common analgesics and fever (38.5°C), without chills. No abnormal signs were found on semiological examination of the skin and respiratory tract. He denied intravenous drug abuse. He had been diagnosed with AIDS for one year prior to the current illness. He was receiving antiretroviral therapy and prophylaxis for Pneumocystis jirovecii with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) at usual doses. He had suffered from mucocutaneous Kaposi's sarcoma, autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura and recurrent oropharyngeal candidiasis. CD4+ T-cell count was 114 cells/μL and plasma viral load < 50 copies/mL. Two blood culture samples were negative, and chest X-ray and computed tomography did not demonstrate pleuroparenchymal lesions. A brain CT scan, without and with contrast, showed two lobulated frontoparietal lesions located in the left and right hemispheres, respectively, with contrast enhancement in the periphery, in a ring and discrete mass effect on the midline structures. CT scan of the brain, sagittal and coronal sections, showing frontoparietal lesion, bilobulated, located in the right hemisphere, with contrast enhancement in the periphery, in a ring and discrete mass effect on the midline structures. CT scan of the brain showing frontoparietal lesions, lobulated, located in the left and right hemispheres, respectively, with contrast enhancement in the periphery, in a ring.

With a presumptive diagnosis of cerebral toxoplasmosis, empirical treatment was started with pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine and leucovorin at the usual doses.
The clinical course was unfavourable, with accentuation of the neurological motor deficit and the addition of simple partial seizures in the right hemisphere. In addition, worsening of the brain lesions was noted on neuroimaging examinations. For these reasons, it was decided to perform a surgical exploration of the lesions for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.

During neurosurgery, two abscesses measuring 3 x 1 cm and 8 x 0.6 cm were found in the left and right frontoparietal regions, respectively. Drainage and removal of the capsule of both lesions was performed. Direct examination of the surgical biopsy material showed numerous leukocytes and, with Kinyoun staining, acid-fast branching filaments were observed. Direct examination of surgical biopsy material showing numerous leukocytes and, with Kinyoun staining, acid-fast branched filaments are observed.
Cultures on Columbia base agar with 5% sheep blood and on chocolate agar developed dry, musty-smelling, white, adherent colonies, which turned yellowish with prolonged incubation at room temperature at 72 h. The other cultures were carried out according to the same staining method. The other cultures were carried out following conventional methodology and showed no growth of other aerobic bacteria, strict anaerobic bacteria, fungi or mycobacteria.

Following the identification scheme for aerobic actinomycetes of clinical importance proposed by Brown and McNeil, the isolated microorganism was identified as Nocardia farcinica. Phenotypic characterisation was confirmed by PCR amplification of the 16S rRNA coding DNA. The PCR product of the 16S rRNA gene was obtained with Ta q DNA polymerase (Promega) using the primers described by Weisburg. Sequencing of the amplified product was performed on both DNA strands using an ABIPrism 3100 BioAnalyzer at the University of Utah. Nucleotide sequences were analysed with Blast V2.0 software. Sequence analysis of the isolate revealed 99 % identity with Nocardia farcinica (Accession Number GO853065-1). Antibiotic sensitivity was performed by the epsilometric method. The cut-off points, expressed in ug/mL, were those recommended by NCCLS (2003): amikacin sensitive ≤ 8; resistant ≥ 16; amoxicillin-clavulanic acid sensitive ≤ 8/4, intermediate 16/8, resistant ≥ 32/16; ceftriaxone sensitive ≤ 8, intermediate 16 - 32, resistant ≥ 64; trimethoprim-sulfatoxazole : sensitive ≤ 2/32; resistant ≥ 4/76; ciprofloxacin: sensitive ≤ 1, intermediate 2, resistant ≥ 4; clarithromycin: sensitive ≤ 2, intermediate 4, resistant ≥ 8. Active antibiotics (MIC in μg/mL) were: TMP-SMX (0.064), ciprofloxacin (0.032), amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (0.50) and amikacin (0.125). The organism was resistant to ceftriaxone (> 32) and clarithromycin (> 32). The patient was treated with TMP/SMX, at a dose of 15 mg/kg intravenously of the TMP component, divided into four daily doses, for three weeks. With this therapy, the clinical manifestations disappeared and significant improvement of neurological signs and abscessed brain imaging was achieved. The patient was discharged and continued on antiretroviral therapy plus 2 tablets of TMS/SMX 160/800 mg twice daily until one year of treatment was completed.
