Anamnesis
A 67-year-old male patient with intolerance to ciprofloxacin and allergy to iodinated contrasts and topical iodine. Diagnosed with terminal chronic renal failure secondary to saturnism, on peritoneal dialysis since May 2005. Total left hip prosthesis in April 2005 and right hip in May 2006. Arterial hypertension and nephrogenic anaemia treated with erythropoietin. Renal transplant from functioning cadaveric donor, urinary tract infection with Acinetobacter baumannii and microangiopathic haemolytic anaemia in relation to anticalcineurinics in May 2007. Post-transplant urinary fistula treated with double J and bladder catheter, infection of the drainage by Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Candida albicans in September 2005. Significant stenosis of the middle portion of the renal artery treated with angioplasty and endovascular stent in December 2007.
On March 10, 2008, he came to the emergency department for a clinical picture of 72 hours of evolution characterised by progressive deterioration of the general condition and abdominal pain, with preserved diuresis and no fever.

Physical examination
Blood pressure 130/70 mmHg. Afebrile. Weight: 75 kg. Conscious and oriented. Acceptable general condition. No palpable goitre or adenopathy, no jugular ingurgitation. Cardiac auscultation rhythmic and without murmurs. Abdomen soft, painful on palpation in the area of the graft (right iliac fossa). Extremities: no oedema, no evidence of deep vein thrombosis, pulses present.

Complementary tests
- Laboratory tests: urea 276 mg/dl, sodium 124 mEq/l, potassium 6.2 mEq/l, plasma creatinine 6.24 mg/dl, haemoglobin 14.8 g/dl, haematocrit 44.8%, 11,000 leukocytes/mm3.
- Abdominal-pelvic ultrasound: pyelocaliceal and ureteral dilatation of the renal graft, with no objective cause.
- Chest and abdominal X-ray: no alterations.
- Urine culture: negative.

Diagnosis
Obstructive uropathy of the renal graft.

Treatment and evolution
It was decided to admit him for study and treatment. On 13 March 2008, prior to percutaneous nephrostomy placement under ultrasound guidance, in addition to pyeloureteral dilatation, a pulsatile mass was observed in the paragraft area, so the procedure was suspended. A new Doppler ultrasound scan showed an image compatible with an iliac pseudoaneurysm. An arteriography with gadolinium was performed, which showed a 5-6 cm pseudoaneurysm of the graft artery, with displacement of the stent, which was in the area of the anastomosis. Emergency surgery was performed, after antibiotic prophylaxis with vancomycin and imipenem. A transplantectomy and femoral-femoral bypass were performed. A few hours after arriving at the Resuscitation Unit she suffered haemodynamic instability with severe anaemia. Surgical revision was decided, finding a large amount of blood in the abdominal cavity and incoercible bleeding, which was not controlled with haemostatic manoeuvres, so packing and closure manoeuvres were performed. The patient died 3 hours after reintervention due to hypovolemic shock related to possible disseminated intravascular coagulation.
