This clinical case corresponds to a 19 year old patient from the canton of La Libertad, in what is now the province of Santa Elena, who grew up in the south of the province of Manabí. He reports that 12 months ago nodular lesions began to appear on the nasal mucosa and the soft palate, which later, as they grew, ulcerated and slowly spread until they now cover almost all the mucosa of the nose, oropharynx, including the cheeks and soft palate, and dysphonia, which suggests invasion of the laryngeal mucosa. Externally, there is protrusion of the profile at the level of the nasolaryngeal area, and marked difficulty in opening the mouth (wide deformation of the profile). The ENT examination is difficult but reveals ulcerations with a granulomatous appearance, which bleed easily and are not very painful. The general condition is preserved, with weight loss in recent months due to difficulty in ingesting food, and the stained examination shows the presence of few amastigotes of Leishmania sp and the RDI with leishmanin is 18mm. Careful examination of the entire skin revealed no scars suggestive of cutaneous leishmaniasis. Based on these findings, treatment was given with trivalent antimonial (Repodral), the only medication available at the time, 1 ampoule intramuscularly per day, as an inpatient at the Infectious Diseases Hospital. In 45 days the improvement was marked, treatment was suspended, and after 6 months fibrous scarring was observed in the whole region, with total loss of tonsils, uvula, soft palate and synechia with the posterior pharyngeal wall, leaving a small communication between the rhino and oropharynx allowing air to pass through. The voice recovered satisfactorily. Scar in the region of the fauces after treatment.

The clinical presentations of ATL in humans are very varied and depend on both the species of parasite and the immune response of the host, so that the same clinical picture can be produced by several species of Leishmania, and the same Leishmania can cause different clinical pictures. In Ecuador, in the coastal region, five species have been identified: L(V) braziliensis, L(V) panamensis, L(V) guyanensis, L(L) mexicana, L(L) amazonensis, L(V) equatoriensis (currently classified in the genus Endotrypanum) and L(L) major-like. These isolates have been made from human lesions, as well as from wild mammals and Lutzomyas insects.
