A 40-year-old patient was referred to our centre after a month of treatment with intravenous and oral corticosteroids and oral ciprofloxacin for a process that started as bilateral papillitis and evolved into bilateral panuveitis. Our clinical history shows that the patient is a homosexual with risky practices, has a doubtful allergy to penicillin and tetracyclines and four months before the onset of the ocular symptoms he presented a palmo-plantar exanthema together with acute pharyngitis, treated with oral erythromycin for a week.

On ophthalmological examination, visual acuity was 0.05 in the right eye (OD, amblyopic eye) and finger counts at 20 cm in the OI. There was a relative afferent pupillary defect in the right eye. Biomicroscopy showed moderate cellularity and fine retrokeratotic precipitates in the OD, intense cellularity in the OI, hypopyon 1 mm and posterior synechiae. Funduscopic examination of both eyes revealed vitritis, papillitis and chorioretinitis plaques. Physical examination revealed bilateral, non-painful, mobile latero-cervical lymphadenopathy.

Laboratory tests showed the following values: CD 4 522 cells/μl, viral load 35,000 copies/ml, positive RPR of 1/64 and positive HAART and IgG (ELISA). The patient was diagnosed as HIV+ stage A1 and possible secondary lupetic secondary infection with ocular involvement, so a lumbar puncture was performed with a cell count of 5 cells/μl, total protein 234 mg/dl, glucose 80 mg/dl (simultaneous glycaemia 89) and VDRL negative.

With these results, treatment was started with intravenous benzylpenicillin at a dose of 4 million units every 4 hours, starting at low doses and in slow infusion in the day hospital of the Allergy Unit. On the second day of administration the patient developed arthralgias and self-limited rash interpreted as Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction. On the ninth day, a rash suggestive of toxicoderma reappeared and treatment had to be discontinued. It was decided to continue with oral erythromycin for two weeks given the patient's possible allergic history.

The evolution was favourable in 2-3 weeks, visual acuity was 1/3 in OD and 1 in OI with resolution of the skin lesions and ocular inflammation, with only a few hypopigmented plaques remaining in the areas of the retinal lesions.
