The patient is a 53-year-old male. His main history included chronic seronegative polyarthritis diagnosed in 2010, for which he had undergone several lines of treatment (Metrotexate in ascending doses, NSAIDs and corticosteroids) with poor clinical evolution. Since that diagnosis, she had presented several episodes of subacromial bursitis in the right shoulder and arthritis in the left ankle that required infiltrations as analgesic treatment, developing a fistulous tract in both locations. In 2011 he required admission for septic arthritis of the right shoulder, with isolation of Corynebacterium spp, and was treated by arthrocentesis and prolonged antibiotherapy. Etanercept (Mantoux previously negative) was added to the treatment several months later, which was finally withdrawn due to ineffectiveness and inadequate response. It is worth highlighting the situation prior to admission, as in recent months he had presented severe joint flare-ups of marked inflammation in both hands and lower limbs (right knee and both ankles) and the appearance of subcutaneous nodules that progressed in size. The patient was admitted in February 2013 following the findings of a gallium scan performed privately, which described a very active pathological process in the left ankle and pathological foci in the right shoulder and foot. When questioned specifically about the joint symptoms, he states that, for several months, the inflammation has been very marked in the left ankle and both hands, as well as pain and intermittent discharge from the fistulous tract of the right shoulder and left ankle. Of note is the appearance of painless subcutaneous nodules on the forearm that have been increasing in size. He reported no other symptoms other than asthenia.

On initial physical examination, the patient was in good general condition. Cardiorespiratory auscultation and abdominal examination were normal. The joint examination revealed a clean fistulous orifice in the right shoulder, with no exudation at the time of the examination. The elbows and wrists are respected, as well as both coxo-femoral joints. On the right hand at the level of the 2nd finger there is inflammation at the proximal interphalangeal level, with an exudative orifice.

There are several subcutaneous nodules, the largest of which is located on the left forearm, without heat or redness, of semi-soft consistency, not adhering to deep planes. On the left ankle, there is swelling and a soft lump at the level of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the second toe. Finally, on the left ankle there is pain and swelling and exudative suppuration from a fistulous tract. In the initial analyses, both the haemogram and the coagulation study showed no alterations, with a leukocyte count within normal values. In the admission biochemistry, the acute phase reactants, CRP, pro-calcitonin and ESR were slightly elevated: 5.83 mg/dL, 2.1 ng/dL and 85 mm/h respectively. Superficial samples were taken from both fistulas, from the subcutaneous nodules described, and arthrocentesis of the left ankle was performed.

The chest X-ray performed was reported as normal. X-rays of the right foot and right hand showed arthritis with bone destruction of the metatarsophalangeal joint of the 2nd toe and of the proximal interphalange of the 2nd toe respectively, We obtained an MRI of the left ankle, describing osteomyelitis and septic arthritis of the ankle and hindfoot, with abscesses and fistulous tracts, infectious tenosynovitis of the posterior tibialis and soft tissue abscesses. In addition, MRI of the right shoulder, infectious subdeltoid bursitis with deltoid muscle component and fistulisation to the skin.  Ultrasound of the forearm tumour showed a 5 x 3.5 cm heterogeneous collection superficial to the flexors and signs of tenosynovitis at the wrist. In view of these findings, we agreed with the patient to take biopsies of the left ankle and the forearm tumour in the operating theatre.

Differential diagnosis
In view of the above, the patient's initial syndromic judgement related the presence of subcutaneous nodules, tenosynovitis and destructive polyarthritis with signs of infection in an immunosuppressed patient with severe seronegative arthropathy.  Initial suspicion makes it necessary to rule out septic arthritis in one or more joints, requiring a broad approach to the aetiology of infective microorganisms at this level. The most frequent microorganisms in the etiological differential diagnosis should include S. aureus, Streptococcus spp, gram-negative aerobic bacteria, Neisseria gonorrhoeae and other less prevalent microorganisms such as fungi and Mycoplasma spp. In addition to the classic pathogens, we should think about slow-growing or less classic bacteria that can destroy the joint and affect the bone in an insidious way, such as mycobacteria. Another non-infectious diagnosis to consider is sarcoidosis, which is the cause of bone lesions in approximately 5% of patients, with joint disease present in 25-50% of sarcoidosis cases, usually polyarticular. Typical bone lesions are mainly on the hands and feet, initially painful, with extensive bone destruction in advanced stages and the presence of skin changes is consistent with the diagnosis. In our patient this was subsequently ruled out. Another diagnostic possibility is crystal-induced arthritis (gout and pseudogout), although in this case there is a good response to anti-inflammatory treatment and the course is more acute. It may also be reactive arthritis, an exacerbation of the underlying disease (with greater involvement of certain joints), or metastasis of a neoplastic process. All these pathologies were ruled out with the results of the complementary tests performed.

The special and distinctive feature of the case lies in the presence of subcutaneous nodules concomitant with the joint symptoms, in addition to synovial involvement of the wrist and ankle. Initially, the presence of these nodules was considered to be part of his underlying disease, and could be related to an exacerbation of his joint pathology or be the clinical manifestation of an underlying infectious process, so we requested a scheduled biopsy in the operating theatre. Subcutaneous nodules in immunosuppressed patients may be a possible early sign of disseminated infection with a poor prognosis. There are different entities that could be the cause of these nodules, so we must establish a differential diagnosis. Among the options should be those diseases that cause nodular lymphagitis, this syndrome is rare and can be caused by fungi, bacteria, mycobacteria, parasites and viruses. The clinical form may present with or without the presence of ascending nodules with lymphagitis or proximal lymphadenitis. Biopsy of the lesion is required for definitive diagnosis. Specifically, P. aeruginosa has also been implicated as an aetiological agent of nodules, although they are more characteristic in the lower limbs. There are other processes characterised by nodules such as nodular scabies, secondary syphilis or bacillary angiomatosis. A rare entity described in the literature that causes synovial involvement is mycobacterial infection of the tendon sheath. The clinical presentation is usually the presence of an indolent mass along the tendon associated with pain and limitation of movement. It is a rare form of extrapulmonary involvement by M.tuberculosis. This infection of the tendon sheath frequently occurs in the hand, foot, ankle and wrist, especially affecting the flexor compartments. Infection of the tendon sheath may result from haematogenous spread of the bacillus.

Evolution
As part of the differential diagnosis in the samples sent to microbiology (ankle specimen and tumour), a complete study of mycobacteria and other defective growth bacteria is requested. In addition, Mantoux and an extended analytical study are requested. The tests requested were received and we were informed by the microbiology laboratory that the direct smear microscopy of the samples received from the ankle was positive and the cultures extracted in the operating theatre from the nodules and the aspiration puncture of the lesion isolated M. tuberculosis. The tuberculin test performed was positive (20 mm x 15 mm), supporting the diagnosis.
The histology of the biopsy obtained in the operating theatre showed ulceration with necrotising granulomatous inflammation, the presence of epithelioid macrophages, Langhans-type giant cells and caseous necrosis, with perivascular lymphocytes, characteristic of tuberculous granulomas. The patient was discharged to the ward with tuberculostatic treatment combining Rifampicin + Isoniazid + Pyrazinamide + Ethambutol at standard doses for the initial two months. The skin lesions have clearly improved and the nodules have almost completely disappeared. The polyarthritis has diminished and the fistulous tracts in the shoulder and knee are in the resolution phase, with a good appearance and no exudative component.
Two months later, Etambutol and pyrazinamide were discontinued and a year of treatment with rifampicin and isoniazid was completed, with excellent tolerance and almost complete resolution of the lesions.

Final diagnosis
Osteoarticular and soft tissue tuberculosis in a patient with severe seronegative arthritis in an immunosuppressed patient.
