Reason for consultation
An 18-year-old male patient was referred from the Emergency Department with a diagnosis of probable psychotic episode.
 Personal medical history He had presented with coma crises during childhood as a result of a TBI caused by a car accident. He is being treated with depakine 500 mg/d. Weekend alcohol consumer and daily cannabis user (since he was about 14 years old, at the time of attending the CSM he consumed 6-7 joints a day). Psychological/psychiatric history At 8 years of age he had been seen a few times by the Child Mental Health Team of the CSM, due to poor school performance.

Family history
Both parents reported anxious-depressive episodes: the father several years ago, with panic attacks and agoraphobia that recovered with SSRIs; the mother had been reporting a mild mixed anxious-depressive episode for 3 months and in relation to her son's situation. She has no family history of psychotic symptoms.

Biography
He is the second in a family of three. Neither of his two siblings has any medical history of interest for the case. As a child he had been a restless boy, a bad student and prone to fights. In the last couple of years his behaviour has improved and he has become much calmer. He is in a stable relationship and has been working as a plasterer on a construction site for the last few months.

Current episode
The patient refers to the onset of the symptoms about a year and a half ago. He recalls that he gradually began to feel "strange, empty... I felt strange, I looked strange, because of the emptiness inside me...". Affectively, he reported feeling sad, labile, anxious, unable to enjoy the activities that used to amuse him "because I felt sad because I was so empty". He also reported feelings of irritability as well as episodes of aggression towards objects, apparently unmotivated. These symptoms had worsened in the last 2-3 months prior to the visit to the emergency department. Since that time, he also refers more markedly to "strange sensations...as if the environment were different". He has been feeling targeted by the gaze of others "in a strange way". "In the street I used to look at people to see if they were looking at me.... People would look at me in a bad way, to laugh.... If someone laughed at me, I spent the whole day thinking about it". He himself recognises the absurdity of some of his thoughts: "I would walk down the street, maybe someone would look at me and I knew what they thought of me, by the look, by the gesture.... I thought that the crazy things they were giving people (on TV) were going to happen to me? It seems absurd to me, I know that many of these things are absurd but they still happen to me". In recent days he has felt observed by strangers, and has noticed that people often talk about him. In an unstructured way he points to a certain ideation of harm. He attributes to his girlfriend a special quality that brings him well-being "it is as if my girlfriend carries my happiness...". In recent weeks the family had become seriously concerned about his change in behaviour. He hardly went out with his friends and seemed preoccupied and withdrawn. He nevertheless kept his job without incident. The mother highlights the progressive isolation and apathy of her son, as well as the feeling of sadness and dullness. She did not report any other behavioural alterations, nor did she notice any changes in the daily rhythms of sleep or eating.


Psychopathological examination
At the time of the first visit, the patient is conscious and oriented. His contact is barely resonant, dull. He has a slight psychomotor slowing, with complaints of a lack of ability to concentrate. His face tends towards hypomimia, with no clinical signs of joint stiffness. His speech is fluent, coherent, well-structured, focused on a feeling of emptiness and strangeness. His mood is congruent with his experiences, showing anguish as well as apathy and abulia. He presents a vaguely structured referential and detrimental ideation. He denies sensory-perceptual disturbances. The presence of thought-reading phenomena is not clear, and he did present experiences of derealisation. In recent weeks she had lost weight. Her sleep is fragmented and she denies self- or heteroaggressive ideation.

Evolution
Already in the Emergency Department he had been started on an atypical antipsychotic (risperidone 3 mg/d) which was adjusted at his first visit to the CSM to 6 mg/d, with the addition of a benzodiazepine to help improve his sleep. During the first months of his evolution this was not as satisfactory as intended. He maintained the pharmacological treatment and the delusional ideation and the probable thought-reading phenomena practically disappeared. However, the feeling of strangeness towards himself and his environment persisted, albeit to a lesser degree. Although he continued to function within a certain normality (he kept his job, continued to meet his friends...) his contact remained, however, poor, barely resonant, dull. He himself continued to complain of lack of concentration, lack of initiative and drive, lack of motivation and apathy "... sometimes I feel like I am slowing down, without conversation, slowed down...". Tendency towards passive social isolation. During all this time he had maintained his daily consumption of hashish (4-5 joints/day). In a second phase he focused on working towards abstinence from cannabis use, maintaining lower doses of risperidone (3 mg/d). Already after one month of complete cessation of use, he begins to feel clearer. His contact has improved a lot (ratified by his family, who see him almost recovered). He still has occasional feelings of strangeness, but his social world has been reactivated. He is motivated and has started new training and work plans. Although he does not report this spontaneously if asked, he still occasionally presents some sensory symptoms, although these are not having functional repercussions on his daily life. One year after abstinence, the patient is fully recovered, according to himself and his family. He is no longer taking treatment (he stopped on his own because of side effects). He has a stable relationship, is still in contact with his friends, has changed jobs and has plans for the future (including handing over the keys to a house). She no longer complains of homesickness or feelings of emptiness. His contact has become normalised, and the feeling of boredom and complaints of lack of concentration have disappeared. He enjoys his activities and the apathy has disappeared.
