Reason for consultation
Bilateral tonalgia and leg stiffness.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
Anamnesis: NSAIDs contraindicated due to gastric ulcer. Non-smoker. Non-drinker. L4-L5 disc herniation.
IQ: appendectomy, turbinates, left knee prosthesis in November 2012.
A 76-year-old male patient who visited his primary care doctor due to poor mood and pain and difficulty flexing his right knee for months. In 2012, he underwent surgery on his left knee for gonarthrosis and began rehabilitation with weight bearing on his right knee. One day, he reported feeling general discomfort described as "whiplash all over the body", at which point he began to experience contractures in both knees, with both knees bent and with a variegated gait from that time onwards. He gradually loses strength to the point where the patient begins to use a wheelchair. The pain is severe and prevents night-time rest.
No sensory loss, no motor loss, no sphincter disturbance.
According to the family, the patient's depression was severe, with spontaneous crying, suicidal ideation and abulia. At this point it was decided to consult with mental health as the patient had not previously suffered from mood disorders.

Physical examination
BEG, afebrile. Higher functions preserved. Normal language and campimetry. PINLA. MOEC Normal cranial nerves. Motor balance in MMSS preserved and symmetrical. Patellar and Achilles ROTs present ++/++++. No loss of muscle mass. No clear spasticity. Muscle tone changes with distraction manoeuvres. Hyperalgesia of the right thigh. Flexion of the right knee of 45o with enormous difficulty in extension. Flexion of 20o in the left knee.

Complementary tests
Normal laboratory tests.
Cranial CT scan with no significant alterations.
Neurophysiological conduction studies show values within the limits of normality. No denervating activity was found in the muscles examined (isolated fasciculations in the calf).
Bone scan: pathological increase in osteoblastic activity in patellae compatible with possible chondropathy. Degenerative changes. L1 crushing.
Spine MRI (skull could not be performed): cervical myelopathy. Degenerative signs with numerous protusions.
Knee MRI: severe right gonarthrosis and to a lesser degree internal femorotibial compartment with internal meniscopathy without meniscal tear.

Family and community approach
The patient is the father of two healthy children and currently lives with his wife. He is a retired businessman. He lives with a dog.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Flexion of both knees and gait disturbance of psychogenic origin. Cervical myelopathy.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease.

Action plan and evolution
Over the course of 5 years, the patient is assessed by traumatology, rehabilitation, pain unit, neurosurgery and neurology due to worsening of the condition without reaching an aetiological diagnosis. Injections with botulinum toxin, corticoids and anaesthetics were carried out, achieving momentary relief but maintaining joint stiffness despite the treatments prescribed. Traumatology decided on reduction under general anaesthesia but during the operation the knee flexion did not give way (45o) and the left knee (operated on) had a flexion of 30o. The MRI of the spine showed cervical myelopathy without symptoms in MMSS, followed up by neurosurgery, which after years decided to intervene. The course was uneventful.
In one of the neurology consultations, a bilateral resting tremor was observed in MMSS with mild associated rigidity and a SPECT-FP was requested to rule out Parkinson's disease. The study was pathological with a decrease in the density of dopamine transporters, indicative of the existence of nigrostriatal degeneration.
