Anamnesis
A 56-year-old patient with a history of HIV infection on treatment with Dolutegravir/ Abacavir/Lamivudine (Triumeq®) for the last two months reported a pruritic and itchy rash of one month's evolution affecting the face and neck.
The patient denied fever or general malaise and did not present pruritus in any other area of the body. He did not precisely relate the appearance of the rash to any precipitant.

Physical examination
On examination, the patient presented follicular papules and pustules, some of them erosive, distributed over the chin, manidibular branches, malar areas, auricular pavilions and neck, slightly infiltrated to the touch, not painful on palpation.
There were no lesions on the trunk or extremities, no mucosal lesions or lesions in the genital area, and no submandibular or periauricular lymphadenopathies were palpable.

Complementary examinations
Given the different diagnostic suspicions, we decided to order a blood test, we took an exudate from one of the pustules for culture, a sample was taken from a lesion for PCR of herpes simplex virus and we performed a skin biopsy for histological study of one of the lesions.
Blood tests showed an improvement in the CD4+ lymphocyte count, which had risen from 200/L to 475/L following the start of treatment, with no other notable alterations.
The exudate sample taken from one of the pustules showed growth of mixed cutaneous flora, but this was not diagnostically relevant.
PCR for HSV 1 and 2 was negative.
The skin biopsy showed a lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with abundant eosinophils, preferentially perifollicular in distribution, but also with a superficial perivascular component accompanied by interstitial eosinophilia. A vesicle with serous material and mixed inflammatory infiltrate composed of polymorphonuclear and eosinophils was observed in the epidermis. The epithelium of the follicular infundibulum was also dotted with eosinophils with a pattern of eosinophilic spongiosis.

Diagnosis
With these clinicopathological and analytical findings, the diagnosis of eosinophilic folliculitis was established, probably in the context of immune reconstitution in HIV patients after starting antiretroviral therapy.

Treatment
Prior to obtaining the results of the complementary tests and given the clinical suspicion of a herpetic infection with onset of dissemination, treatment was started with Valacyclovir 1 g every 12 hours and an appointment was made for a review in 9 days. Once the results of the complementary tests were obtained and the diagnosis established, treatment was started with methylprednisolone aceponate 1 mg/g in emulsion, with a check-up in one month.

Evolution
At the first check-up nine days after the first consultation, the patient was stable with no new lesions and no improvement, so it was decided to continue treatment with Valacyclovir for a further week while awaiting the results of the biopsy and PCR, with an appointment in two weeks. Two weeks later, with a definitive diagnosis, treatment with topical corticosteroids was started, with a further check-up in one month. At the last check-up the patient showed a notable improvement with fewer lesions and these were less pruritic, coinciding both with the start of treatment with topical methylprednisolone aceponate and with a stabilisation of the CD4 lymphocyte count.

