Anamnesis
74-year-old male patient, with no known drug allergies or toxic habits. Personal history of type II diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, left submassive pulmonary thromboembolism and under study for renal failure. Surgical history of right inguinal herniorrhaphy and laparoscopic cholecystectomy (2010). Usual treatment: omeprazole, torasemide, enalapril, bisoprolol, insulin and acenocoumarol.
She attended the hospital emergency department due to deterioration in general condition, with asthenia and weight loss, accompanied by pain in the hypogastrium and perineal region and dysuria of one month's duration. She did not report fever or dysthermic sensation. He was being treated with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid by his primary care physician.

Physical examination
Conscious, oriented. Mucocutaneous pallor and normohydrated. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic at 88 bpm, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: generalised hypoventilation. Abdomen: soft, depressible, painful on palpation in the hypogastrium, without signs of peritoneal irritation; no masses or visceromegaly; peristalsis preserved. External genitalia: atrophic right testicle, erythematous left testicle, impacted, suggestive of orchiepididymitis. Rectal examination: perineal region without alterations; decreased tone of the anal sphincter; soft prostate not suspicious (GI) or painful; he reported involuntary loss of faeces. A bladder catheter is placed and a urine culture is taken.

Complementary tests
● CBC: haemoglobin 11.4 g/dl, haematocrit 34.5%, leukocytes 14.2 mil/mm3, neutrophils 72.3%.
Biochemistry: creatinine 1.6 mg/dl, glucose 300 mg/dl.
Venous blood gases: pH 7.45, PaO2 36 mmHg, PaCO2 29 mmHg, HCO3 20.2 mmol/l.
● Urine: pH 5.5, 60-100 leucocytes/field, bacterial flora +++.
● Coagulation: prothrombin time 88.6 s, prothrombin activity 9%.
● INR-TP 7.31, aPTT 54.9 s, derived fibrinogen 794 mg/dl.
● Ultrasound: dilated main bile duct (13 mm). Right kidney with normal morphology, size and echostructure. Left kidney with cystic images of 3.8 and 4 cm of simple appearance. No bilateral pyelocaliceal dilatation. Heterogeneous hypodense splenic image of 3.8 cm with extension to the inferior and anterior splenic border. No free fluid is observed.
● Urine culture: positive for Klebsiella oxytoca, with no resistance to the usual antibiotics.
● Given the general condition and the ultrasound findings, it was decided to admit him to the Internal Medicine Department for further investigation. Antibiotic treatment was started with levofloxacin. On the sixth day she presented with diffuse abdominal pain and a slab belly, and an abdominal-pelvic CT scan was performed: bilateral pleural effusion and free peritoneal fluid. Nodular hypodense splenic lesion of approximately 5 cm in diameter with peripheral area extending to the hilum and the gastrosplenic ligament, without being able to rule out tumour. Marked prostatic abscesses (6 cm left lobe) and seminal vesicles with internal inferior descent of the levator ani muscle. Small amount of retrovesical fluid.

Diagnosis
Interprostatic abscess.
Splenic mass pending filiation.

Treatment
Suprapubic cystostomy and percutaneous perineal ultrasound-guided percutaneous drainage of the left prostatic lobe, with an outflow of 60 cc of pus, and of the right lobe, with an outflow of 15 cc. Two pigtail drains were left (one in each lobe) and intraprostatic instillation with tobramycin was performed. Samples were taken for microbiology (Klebsiella pneumoniae sensitive to tobramycin was isolated).

Evolution
During the postoperative period, a thoracentesis was performed to diagnose right pleural effusion, compatible with transudate. A control CT scan was requested, which showed retrocaval, subaortic, anterior diaphragmatic chain and retrocrural lymphadenopathies. Mass in the splenic hilum, probably due to adenopathic conglomerate with signs of tumour infiltration suggesting the possibility of a lymphoproliferative process: lymphoma.
Given the improvement in general condition, the patient was discharged with bladder size, to assess the possibility of scheduled surgery for splenectomy and transurethral resection of the prostate, after placement of a cava filter.
The patient was readmitted 14 days after discharge due to a great deterioration in his general condition, accompanied by diarrhoea, abdominal distension and dyspnoea at rest without fever, secondary to recurrence of his bilateral pleural effusion. A new thoracentesis was performed, with pleural fluid cytology compatible with high-grade lymphoma. He died of multi-organ failure.
