HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Male, 36 years old.

History
AHT
Stage III chronic renal failure secondary to vesicoureteral reflux Current illness The patient reported fever and vomiting for 3 days, general malaise, generalised aches and pains, dystrophic sensation, chills, sweating and vomiting.

Physical examination
BP: 100/40
Ta: 39.5 °C
Normal colour, hydrated and perfused.
Eupneic at 0°.
Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic with systolic murmur in EIB
Pulmonary auscultation: VCM
Abdomen: no evidence of peritoneal irritation.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY: RS, BCRIHH.
Chest X-ray: normal.
Laboratory tests: biochemistry: creatinine 7.99 mg/gl; Na 131 mEq/l; K 4.59 mEq/l, CRP 23.09 mg/dl. Gases: pH 7.23, pCO2 36 mmHg, pO2 14 mmHg, HCO3 15 mmol/l, Ebb - 11.6 mmol/l.
Haemogram: Hb 11.6 g/dl, platelets 80 x1000/ul, leucocytes 16.30x1000/ ul, neutrophils 94.7%.
Coagulation: prothrombin activity 65%, INR 1.34.
Abdominal CT scan with chest sections: abdomen normal. Chest sections included in the study showed a 1 cm nodule in LID, two in LII (the largest measuring 5 mm) and another in the anterior part of the lingula, all undetermined, with an infectious aetiology to be assessed.
Blood cultures: methicillin-sensitive S. aureus.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: image compatible with endocardial wart of 15x10 mm anchored to the IV septum. Restrictive ventricular septal defect. Transesophageal echocardiogram recommended. Transesophageal echocardiogram: ruled out involvement of other valves.

EVOLUTION
In view of the febrile syndrome presented by the patient, two sets of blood cultures were requested. A possible abdominal focus was suspected based on the clinical manifestations and an abdominal CT scan was performed, which ruled it out, although there was evidence of possible infectious foci in the lungs.
Two sets of blood cultures were taken and were positive for Staphylococcus aureus. After isolation of S. aureus in both sets and the presence of previously unknown left bundle branch block and murmur, a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed showing an endocardial wart dependent on the tricuspid subvalvular apparatus or the interventricular septum; and a restrictive ventricular septal defect (GP max 140 mmHg). Antibiotic therapy with intravenous cloxacillin was started, after which the patient remained afebrile, asymptomatic, with a decrease in acute phase reactants and sterile serial blood cultures. A control transthoracic echocardiogram was performed 7 days after starting antibiotic therapy and it was found that the image of the wart had not decreased in size. A wait-and-see attitude was maintained and 14 days after starting antibiotic treatment, a new echocardiographic check-up was performed, which showed no changes with respect to the diagnostic echocardiogram. Given the persistence of the vegetation, surgical intervention was indicated in conjunction with the Cardiac Surgery Service. The possibilities were explained to the patient and he accepted. The vegetation was resected and the VSD was closed with direct suture. The patient evolves favourably and is included in the haemodialysis programme.

DIAGNOSIS
Tricuspid endocarditis due to S. aureus.
