An 88 year old woman with a history of allergy to penicillins, arterial hypertension, dyslipidaemia and ischaemic heart disease attended the emergency department due to deterioration in general condition and micturition syndrome. Complementary tests showed a significant elevation of acute phase reactants and pathological urinalysis suggestive of urinary tract infection (UTI) and she was admitted to the Internal Medicine ward with a diagnosis of sepsis of urinary origin (SOFA 5), starting empirical antibiotherapy with aztreonam.
Despite antibiotherapy, the patient persisted with poor general condition, fever and significant abdominal pain. Other possible causes of infection were considered, either due to resistant microorganisms or other sources of infection.
On auscultation on the ward, he presented with a previously undescribed systolic murmur and Microbiology was notified due to growth in blood cultures (3/3) of gram-negative anaerobic bacilli. For this reason a CT scan of the abdomen was requested which ruled out urgent intra-abdominal pathology and antibiotherapy with metronidazole was started, with good subsequent evolution.
In view of the suspicion of possible infective endocarditis (IE), despite the infrequent occurrence of these due to anaerobes, a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, which revealed a probable mitral wart that was confirmed in the transesophageal echocardiogram (20x7mm). Finally, the microorganism was identified as Bacteroides caccae sensitive to metronidazole. According to the new European guidelines, in patients with possible IE on native valve, an active search for embolic phenomena is recommended, and a PET-CT scan was performed which identified pathological uptake at the level of the mitral valve compatible with IE. A few days after the PET-CT scan and 25 days after admission, the patient presented chest pain with typical characteristics together with ST-segment elevation in the inferior face, so a coronary angiography was performed which showed embolic content in the right coronary artery (balloon angioplasty + stent with good angiographic results). A few hours later, a transesophageal echocardiogram was performed which showed the absence of a mitral wart. Both the previous PET-CT scan and the absence of post-coronary event wart make the diagnosis of coronary embolic phenomenon in the heart of an anaerobic IE (Bacteroides caccae) probable, both entities being rare according to the latest series in the literature.
