Patient aged 61 years; no known drug allergies, smoker of 63 packs/year, significant active alcoholism, recently diagnosed hypertension. He came to the emergency department approximately 4 days ago with a frontal headache coinciding with a diagnosis of hypertension, for which he was started on antihypertensive treatment. The family reported that they found him "slower" accompanied by behavioural alterations; with no other accompanying symptoms.
 Physical examination: Glasgow Glasgow 15; neurological examination without focality except for bradypsychia and disorientation in time, person and space. Afebrile. BP: 159/92; heart rate 70 and O2 Sat: 93%; abdominal examination revealed hepatomegaly of two finger widths with no other noteworthy findings. CBC: Hb 14.8; Ht 41.5; leukocytes 10,100; platelets 367,000; normal coagulation; SODIUM 112; K+ 3.9; Cl- 78; glucose 116; urea 33; creatinine 0.3; tumour markers with alpha-fetoprotein 2.3; carcinoembryonic antigen 3.1; Ca 125 14.8; CA 19.9 27.9; Legionella antigen and pneumococcus in urine negative. Thyroid hormones within normal limits.

Complementary tests: CT scan of the brain with no significant findings. Thoracic-abdomino-pelvic CT: pseudonodular lesions in lung parenchyma, mostly in LII, not ruling out neoplasia, with mediastinal lymph node involvement, especially at right hilar and subcarinal level. Multiple focal hepatic lesions, compatible with metastasis. Bronchoscopy with infiltration of neoplastic aspect from the entrance of the left upper lobe, thickening of the carina. Development: Clinical judgement: this is a patient with hyponatraemia with low plasma osmorality and probable pulmonary neoplasia in the context of a probable SIADH. Differential diagnosis: hyponatraemia is the most common water and electrolyte disorder. The differential diagnosis must take into account high, normal or low osmorality. The latter is where true hyponatraemia is most frequently found in clinical practice. Hypothyroidism and SIADH are typical.
