Anamnesis
A 28-year-old male, with a history of cryptorchidism surgery in childhood, with no toxic habits or other medical or surgical history of interest.

He attended the Emergency Department of his referral hospital with a clinical picture of a week's evolution of fever, asthenia, mild bitemporal headache and general malaise. Symptomatic treatment and single doses of moxifloxacin were started, however, the patient worsened clinically, increasing the intensity of the headache, with the addition of unsteadiness-type dizziness, difficulty swallowing, left facial hypoaesthesia, nausea and horizontal binocular double vision. In the following days, she presented persistent hiccups after meals, for which, finally, she consulted the Emergency Department again.

Physical examination
Examination revealed a slight paresis of the right external rectus and upper rectus, a horizontal horizontal-rotatory nystagmus in horizontal gaze on both sides with a subtle vertical component, left facial hypoaesthesia, and a difficult tandem gait, with the rest of the neurological and general examination being normal.

A routine blood count, biochemistry, coagulation, thyroid hormones, vitamin B12, folate, proteinogram and autoimmunity study (including IgG-NMO) were requested, with no abnormalities, and analysis of cerebrospinal fluid showed slight pleocytosis (62 leukocytes per field), with normal glucose, protein and adenosine deaminase. Conventional and mycobacterial culture, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for herpesvirus and enterovirus, arbovirus, Toscana and Nile were negative, as well as cytology for neoplastic cells. Transthoracic echocardiography showed no abnormalities, and ED cranial computed tomography (CT) was normal. A cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, which showed diffuse involvement of the white matter in the left bulbar region, with mild mass effect, as well as of the left cerebellar peduncle, left cerebellar hemisphere and periventricular at the level of the IV ventricle. Given the findings of the complementary tests, the clinical picture was interpreted as viral or post-infectious rhombencephalitis, and the patient was treated with acyclovir and dexamethasone for ten days. At the end of treatment, he improved clinically and radiologically: the diplopia disappeared, the instability improved and he remained afebrile. A control brain MRI showed a new image of white matter involvement in the right cerebellar hemisphere, so the lumbar puncture was repeated (unchanged from the initial one) and treatment with megadoses of steroids was started.

Two days after starting steroid treatment, the patient began to experience headache located in the occipital region, vertiginous sensation with head movements, nausea, vomiting and intolerance to eating. Antibiotic treatment was started with cefepime, metronidazole and ampicillin at high doses, and anti-oedema measures were intensified, despite which the patient remained severely prostrated. An urgent cranial CT scan was performed, which showed incipient hydrocephalus due to involvement of the IV ventricle due to increased oedema in the posterior fossa. Finally, the neurosurgery department of our hospital was contacted for monitoring and possible surgery if necessary. Once the patient was admitted to this department, they requested our assessment.

Complementary tests
- Blood tests were performed, including haemogram, biochemistry and coagulation, which were normal. Serology for hepatitis B and C, human immunodeficiency virus, Toxoplasma, cytomegalovirus, lupus, Brucella, Borrellia, mumps, atypical pneumonia and Rickettsia were negative. Herpes simplex serology was positive, as was Epstein-Barr serology (indicating past infection).
- Blood cultures were negative.
- Transesophageal echocardiography was normal.
- Cranial MRI showed multiple T2 hyperintense nodular lesions located in the vermis, both cerebellar hemispheres and posterolateral cords of the right hemibulb, which presented a hypointense ring in T2 sequences, intense ring enhancement after contrast administration and intense restriction in diffusion sequences, findings compatible with multiple abscesses in these locations. In addition, there was an area of ill-defined limits in the posterior region of both cerebellar hemispheres, hyperintense in T2 with enhancement after contrast administration, compatible with an area of cerebritis.

Diagnosis
Bilateral rhombencephalitis and multiple abscesses in the posterior fossa.

Treatment and evolution
As the clinical and radiological data indicated active rhombencephalitis, probably due to Listeria, treatment was started with ampicillin, cefotaxime, gentamicin and dexamethasone. When questioned again, the patient reported having eaten a kebab the night before the onset of the clinical picture. Subsequently, the Microbiology Department of his referral hospital informed us that Listeria monocytogenes had been isolated in two blood cultures. The patient evolved favourably after starting treatment. After 12 days of treatment, on examination he only showed residual involvement of the right VI cranial nerve, paraesthesia in the third branch of the right V cranial nerve, slight involvement of the right hypoglossus, and residual signs of slight right cerebellar involvement with remission of the haemipyramidalism and with minimal tendency of the gait towards the right; the control analysis was normal. For all these reasons, it was decided to discharge him from hospital to complete oral treatment with linezolid and rifampicin. Finally, the diagnosis in this patient was cerebral listeriosis after ingestion of kebab.
