Anamnesis
A 47-year-old female patient with a history of arterial hypertension and Crohn's disease being treated with mesalazine, who was followed up in the urology department for a history of left chorioriform lithiasis, for which she underwent open pyelolithotomy in 2002 and at least six sessions of ESWL in another centre, who underwent percutaneous left nephrolithotomy in February 2012 due to the presence of lithiasis in the left lower caliceal group measuring 1.8 x 1.7 cm. An attempt at percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PNL) was performed in the prone position, but failed because the urinary tract could not be approached after multiple attempts. A catheter was left as retroperitoneal drainage and a double J catheter was placed retrograde. The postoperative abdominal X-ray shows the correct placement of the double J catheter and also reveals the presence of a metal dense material superimposed on the left flank. Given that the patient remained asymptomatic, it was decided to maintain an expectant attitude to the presence of a foreign body.
The procedure was repeated in April 2012, successfully performing left LNL, achieving total extraction of the lithiasic fragments, and placing a new double J catheter, which was removed in the consultation room 21 days later. The patient visited the clinic for a check-up 3 months after the operation, reporting palpable induration at abdominal level. The follow-up computed tomography (CT) scan showed the presence of a metallic foreign body in the left paraumbilical subcutaneous cellular tissue.

Physical examination
Abdominal examination revealed a superficial linear induration in the left paraumbilical region.

Complementary tests
- Postoperative postoperative abdominal X-ray failed left PNL: left double J catheter in apparently adequate location. Drainage superimposed on the left renal silhouette. Metal density material superimposed on the left flank. Surgical technique to be assessed. Left renal lithiasis without significant changes.
- Abdominal CT scan: changes in relation to the left percutaneous nephrolithotomy, identifying a lithiasis in relation to the lower calcific group of approximately 5-6 mm. Small lithiasis in the middle caliceal group, millimetric. Metallic foreign body in relation to the fat of the subcutaneous cellular tissue in the left paraumbilical region.

Diagnosis
Metallic foreign body in the left paraumbilical subcutaneous tissue, in a woman with a history of left LNPL, with presence of metallic material superimposed on the left flank in the immediate postoperative period.

Treatment
In September 2012, under local anaesthesia, a left paraumbilical foreign body compatible with a sensor guide, about 4 cm long, in two segments, was removed with a mosquito.

Evolution
The patient was discharged the same day as the operation. Follow-up in consultation one month later, she is asymptomatic. She is awaiting a follow-up abdominal CT scan and urine culture to monitor her lithiasic pathology.

