The index case was a six-year-old girl from Pozuzo, department of Pasco (central jungle), admitted to a hospital in the city of Lima in August 2006 for a febrile illness of one month's duration. She began with upper respiratory symptoms, followed by general malaise, hyporexia and irritability. He had received antibiotics for a urinary tract infection (pyelonephritis), without improvement, in a hospital in his homeland.

On examination he presented fever of 38.8 °C, tachycardia and tachypnoea. There was no evidence of oedema or inoculation chagomas. He presented with cervical and inguinal polyadenitis of 0.5 cm in diameter, and significant non-painful hepatosplenomegaly. Vital signs showed that tachycardia was not associated with fever. The haemogram showed 15,100 leukocytes with 3% abastinates, 38% segmented and 56% lymphocytes; haemoglobin was 11.8%, glutamic pyruvic transaminase (GPT) was 183 U/L, bilirubins were normal and urine examination showed the presence of urobilinogen and bile pigments. Agglutination tests for salmonellosis and Brucellosis were negative. Chest X-ray showed mild cardiomegaly, and the electrocardiogram showed tachycardia with T-wave inversion from V1 to V4.

Suspicion of malaria led to a thick blood smear and peripheral blood smear, which detected abundant trypomastigote forms of T. cruzi, which was confirmed by the Leishmaniasis and Chagas Laboratory of the National Institute of Health. Serological evaluation for anti-Trypanosoma cruzi antibodies by ELISA and IFA was reactive. Subsequently, we performed blood culture and xenodiagnosis to isolate the parasite and characterise it molecularly.

The patient was diagnosed with acute Chagas disease with mild chagasic myocarditis, and treatment was started with benznidazole at a dose of 5mg/kg/d, achieving remission of fever on the tenth day of treatment, after which the clinical course was favourable.

The detection of this case prompted a clinical and epidemiological investigation in Pozuzo. We defined the patient as the index case and enrolled 13 people as possible collaterals who met two inclusion criteria: family members who shared the same house as the index case or people who lived next door to the index case, who were examined clinically (general examination and preferential examination of the pulmonary and cardiovascular systems) and serologically for anti-T. cruzi antibodies by ELISA and IFA.

We also investigated the characteristics of the index case's home, the presence of vectors and the keeping of domestic animals, data that were recorded in a clinical-epidemiological record. The search for triatomines was carried out using the man-hour method by manual search in the intra- and peridomicile during the day and night.

The house where the index case lives is located in a secondary forest about one kilometre from the village centre, and has water, drainage (groundwater well), telephone and electricity installations. The walls are made of noble plastered material and the roof is made of calamine, with different characteristics to the typical Chagasic house of rustic material; but they raise chickens, ducks, geese and two dogs, which were examined for T. cruzi by means of xenodiagnosis.

All respondents reported having encountered triatomines in their bedrooms, 62% (8/13) had a history of being bitten by "chirimachas", as they are popularly known, 15% (2/13) had no history of exposure to triatomines and 23% (3/13) did not know.

Xenodiagnosis of two dogs in the household was negative for Trypanosoma on examination of intestinal contents at 30 and 60 days after nymph feeding.

There was no evidence of adult triatomines, nymphs, eggs, moults or traces in any of the homes surveyed; however, during the night search, two adult specimens were captured in the index case home. In addition, ten houses belonging to the locality of La Esperanza, close to the case house in the locality of Pozuzo, were visited, where no evidence of house infestation was found either. Days after the investigation, the local health establishment sent nine adult triatomine specimens, which had been captured and reported by the community.

All the captured triatomines were identified as Panstrongylus geniculatus, according to the dichotomous keys where this species is included11,12. On microscopic examination of the digestive contents, two of the 11 specimens collected showed metacyclic trypomastigote forms of Trypanosoma, one of them from the dwelling of the index case. These strains have been isolated for further genetic characterisation.
