Female patient aged 9 years, 11 months, third of 4 siblings, born at term, with a birth weight of 3,800 g, without perinatal pathology and with growth and development within normal limits, with no known history of morbidity at the time of the first consultation.

She consults for a year of progressive difficulty in swallowing (logical dysphagia), which has progressively limited her feeding, with an objective weight loss of more than 10%. She does not present frequent vomiting, pain or changes in intestinal transit; nor has she presented with systemic symptoms such as fever or compromised general condition. The clinical picture raises suspicion of oesophageal achalasia.

An X-ray of the oesophagus-stomach-duodenum was indicated, which showed dilatation of the distal two thirds of the oesophagus, with retention of the contrast medium and formation of a liquid-liquid level and a sharp decrease in the distal calibre with a "bird's beak" morphology. There is marked delay of oesophageal emptying with filiform passage of contrast medium into the stomach after 4 minutes of observation. Oesophageal motility is decreased, with no obvious peristaltic waves. There was barium retention in the distal oesophagus. No other anatomical alterations distally or episodes of spontaneous gastro-oesophageal reflux were identified during the study. The examination is compatible with achalasia. The patient was referred to paediatric surgery to complete the study and treatment.

X-ray of the oesophagus-stomach-duodenum in a paediatric patient with dysphagia, anteroposterior projection Image taken at the beginning of the study, with distal dilatation of the oesophagus and retention of the contrast medium with formation of a level. There is a sharp decrease in the distal calibre with a "bird's beak" morphology. At 2 minutes, no passage of contrast medium into the stomach is observed. At 4 minutes, there is a filiform passage of contents into the gastric chamber.

She was evaluated by the paediatric surgery team, who began a study for possible surgical resolution. A Chagas serology was performed, which was negative, and a general laboratory study was performed to evaluate the nutritional repercussions of her present condition, presenting a plasma albumin value of 4.5 g/dl and plasma electrolytes within the range, and it was decided to perform a Heller Myotomy laparoscopically.
