We present the case of a 69-year-old woman, with no known drug allergies, independent for basic activities of daily living, with a history of arterial hypertension, asthma, L5-S1 discopathy, bilateral gonarthrosis and impaired fasting blood glucose. On 6 October 2015, she underwent surgery to implant a total knee prosthesis, with good evolution in the immediate postoperative period, with no local or distant infectious complications.
After discharge, the patient achieved full functional recovery, ambulated without assistance and reported no pain in the joint. On 12 November 2015, she abruptly presented with inflammatory pain, synovial effusion and almost total functional impotence of the joint, associated in the following hours with a febrile syndrome with chills and shivering. He therefore went to the emergency department where frank signs of arthritis were observed in the right knee, with no dehiscence or fistulas in relation to the surgical wound and with the rest of the physical examination being anodyne.
Urgent laboratory tests revealed normocytic anaemia, mild leukocytosis and elevated C-reactive protein (348 mg/L) with no other findings of interest. Synovial fluid extracted by arthrocentesis was cloudy, with undetectable glucose, 33,600 leukocytes (95% PMN 5% MN) and protein 5.32 g/dL.
Blood and synovial fluid cultures were requested and penicillin-sensitive Streptococcous pyogenes was isolated. Plain radiography showed no evidence of implant mobilisation or periprosthetic fracture. A transthoracic echocardiogram ruled out the presence of endocarditis. With the diagnosis of presumed infection of the total knee prosthesis, surgical debridement was performed on 13 November, and abundant intraoperative purulent exudate was observed, as well as loosening of the tibial component, which led to complete resection of the prosthesis with implantation of a spacer impregnated with vancomycin and gentamicin. The four intraoperative samples of periprosthetic tissue were positive for the same germ, so after completing a brief 72-hour period of empirical antibiotic treatment, the patient was de-escalated to intravenous ceftriaxone (2g every 12 hours) for two weeks, and then to oral amoxicillin, 1g every 6 hours, for the remaining six weeks.
After successful completion of the treatment and normalisation of the acute phase reactants, the second stage of surgery with reimplantation of the secondary arthroplasty was performed on 25 February. The surgical site was described as apparently clean and all four culture samples obtained prior to reimplantation were negative. The postoperative course was torpid due to medial dehiscence of the surgical wound that gave way to a new infection on the implant, this time by Staphylococcus epidermidis resistant to cloxacillin, levofloxacin, erythromycin, clindamycin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, rescued in the four intraoperative samples after further debridement with retention of the implant and replacement of the polyethylene on 10 March 2016.
The patient completed targeted antibiotic treatment with intravenous daptomycin (10 mg/kg/24h) and oral rifampicin 600mg every 24h for two weeks, followed by linezolid 600 mg every 12h. After correctly complying with the established treatment and receiving daily dressings by a specialised nurse, the evolution of the wound was not satisfactory, persisting dehiscent and exudative until the prosthetic material was exposed. For this reason, in week 8 of treatment (17 May 2016), the Plastic Surgery and Traumatology teams performed a joint operation in which a new debridement of the periprosthetic tissues, replacement of the polyethylene, reinforcement of the patellar tendon and skin coverage with a bipedicled graft from the posterior-internal thigh and coverage of the bed with a meshed graft that was extracted from the right lower limb. Both in the seven intraoperative samples and in the polyethylene sonication, S. epidermidis was recovered with a phenotype different from the previous one and resistant to cloxacillin, levofloxacin, erythromycin, clindamycin, TMP-SMX, rifampicin and linezolid.

Differential diagnosis
In the assessment of any patient affected by acute joint inflammation on a recently implanted prosthesis, aseptic loosening of the prosthesis, haemarthrosis, prosthetic dislocation or periprosthetic fracture, and prosthetic infection should be considered as possible diagnoses. Other processes to take into account, although less prevalent during the first month after the operation, would be microcrystalline arthritis, systemic diseases, complicated Baker's cyst or periarticular processes (tendinitis, bursitis or sprains).

Evolution
After the last operation, it was decided to start targeted antibiotic treatment with intravenous dalbavancin at a dose of 1000mg weekly, together with oral doxycycline 100mg every 12 hours for 8 weeks under home hospitalisation. He had monthly check-ups at the doctor's office. In the last of these, nine months after the end of treatment, the graft is attached and healthy, there are no areas of dehiscence, fistula or cellulitis around the surgical wound, the prosthesis is stable, reaching 90o of flexion with no evidence of mobilisation in the conventional radiological study, and the analysis is normal. The patient reports being pain-free and ambulates without assistance.

Final diagnosis
Acute haematogenous infection of the right PTR by S. pyogenes. Early prosthetic infection on secondary arthroplasty by multidrug-resistant S. epidermidis.
