Personal history
The patient lives with his parents and is in the second year of high school. He has been diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) since childhood (6-7 years), having been on treatment with methylphenidate 10 mg/day until about two months ago, when his paediatrician withdrew it due to the clinical remission of his ADHD symptoms and he was discharged from the hospital. Paediatric history: pregnancy and birth were normal, physical development was adequate. At the age of 3 he attended a public school where the child "was not at ease, as he was punished a lot" and his performance was average. He performed well in primary school. In the third year of primary school he was taken to a psychologist because his parents noticed that he was very nervous and restless. At the age of 9 he started treatment with methylphenidate. During the years of compulsory secondary education, his performance was quite acceptable, getting A's and B's in most subjects, notably improving school coexistence, reducing his hyperactivity and improving his attention.

Toxicological history
He reports having used cannabis for the first time at the age of 14, very occasionally ("one puff") until now. He also acknowledges alcohol consumption on some weekends (2-3 cubalibres when he goes out). He does not use tobacco and has never tried cocaine, hallucinogens or other intoxicants. The mother confirms this information. Family history No pathologies of interest. He has a sister two years older than him.

Current history
Two months ago, when he was with some friends, he drank a "Red Bull" with whisky and then smoked about 6 puffs of a joint, an amount higher than what he usually consumes. He describes that he then started to laugh and felt subjectively well, but quickly started to feel unpleasant sensations and went to vomit. He then began to feel an intense sense of anguish, with palpitations, a sense of impending death, hearing people talking as if slowing down, a sense of strangeness and unreality, feeling that people were addressing him, others thought he was the devil, he felt very frightened by the idea that he might be dead and that friends thought he was dead. He also felt that people were "coming at him" with ideas of harm. He did not report any auditory or other sensory hallucinations and estimates that the symptoms lasted for one hour. For this reason, he went to the emergency room of our hospital.

In the emergency report of that day, it is noted that he was no longer taking methylphenidate and that he attended for a picture of psychomotor agitation that subsided with the administration of haloperidol. He refers to the fact that during the period of cannabis intoxication he presented delirious ideation of a mystical nature, which he later partially criticised. The examination on that day highlighted anxiety, with no evidence of affective symptoms, sensory-perceptual disorders or cognitive alterations. The physical and neurological examination, electrocardiogram and laboratory tests were normal. The detection of toxins in urine was positive for cannabis only. On discharge he presented adequate criticism of delirious ideation, was diagnosed with cannabis intoxication and was referred to the Drug Dependency Care Centre.

After this episode he was well, he did not use cannabis again, which is confirmed by the mother. Two months after this episode, without using cannabis, he again suddenly presented the same symptoms as in the previous episode. While travelling, he began to feel "accelerated", to think that the people around him "could be diabolical", that he "was the centre of everything", that others were watching him even though there was no one around him, with the idea that he could be dead and suffering from the consequences of this, such as the suffering of his parents. This caused him intense anguish. He again had the feeling that others were speaking more slowly. He experienced as his own thoughts that people were laughing at him, that they were playing with his life, that others were hinting that he would regret what happened. At the time of the examination, anguish predominated, at that time no sensory-perceptual or thought content alterations were observed, he was partially critical of the sensations he had suffered and showed an intense fear that the symptoms might be repeated. Complementary examinations were normal and no toxins were detected in urine. He was diagnosed with a flashback episode related to cannabis consumption and anxiolytics were prescribed.
