Reason for consultation
Syncopal episodes.

Individual approach
Anamnesis:
Family history: no history of interest.
Personal history: NAMC. No CVRF. Meningitis at 18 years of age. Thalassaemia minor. IQ: appendectomy.
A 51-year-old man attended primary care for two episodes of loss of consciousness. The first was preceded by sweating and dizziness without turning objects. He had no memory of its duration. No loss of sphincter control or abnormal movements, but vomiting. No headache or signs of subsequent confusion, although the wife reported facial flushing. He went to the hospital emergency room and was discharged with a diagnosis of vasovagal syncope.
Two months later, the same symptoms occurred, preceded by general malaise, abdominal pain and diarrhoea. On this second occasion, he was assessed by his primary care physician who, suspecting probable anaphylaxis, sent him to an allergy clinic for assessment.
The patient only related both symptoms to orange juice. He previously reported lip oedema and oral pruritus when he ate seafood and oedema if he accompanied this intake with exercise.

Examination: Good general condition. Conscious and oriented. Not hydrated, normohydrated, normal colour and eupneic at rest. Constitution type pneumonia. Temperature at consultation: 36.4o. HR: 74 bpm.
HR: 14rpm. Sat 02: 98%.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation: rhythmic and strong tones without murmurs or extratonos. Vesicular murmur preserved with good bilateral air entry.
Abdomen: disseminated papular lesions with brown pigmentation predominating in the abdomen.
Dermography: negative. Hepatomegaly of 2 finger widths. Splenomegaly of 1 finger span painful on palpation.
Neurological examination was normal, no focality. Cranial nerves preserved. Pupils isochoric and normoreactive. No loss of strength or sensation in the extremities. No dyskinesia. Dysmetria in the right hand.

Complementary tests:
EKG: Sinus rhythm at 74 bpm. Short PR. Narrow QRS. No data of repolarisation alterations.
Chest X-ray normal.
Cranial CT scan: no alterations.

Skin tests:
- Inhalant allergens: Positive to alternaria fungi, aspergillus, cat epithelium, D. pteronyssinus mite, dog epithelium and grass, olive and cypress pollens.
- Allergens of animal origin: Positive for shrimp.
- Allergens of plant origin: negative.
- CBC, biochemistry, ESR, PCR, TSH. Proteinogram, antithyroid antibodies, serum immunoglobulins, echinococcus serology and complement without alterations.
- Tryptase, total IgE normal and specific to latex, shrimp and anisakis negative.
- Controlled exposure test with lidocaine without immediate or delayed hypersensitivity.
- Normal abdominal CT scan.
-Bone marrow aspirate (cytology): Haematopoiesis well presented. Although there are no major criteria for mastocytosis, the rate of mast cells is higher than normal, mostly pathological in appearance.
-Bone marrow biopsy: Mast cell hyperplasia. Absence of mastocytic clusters diagnostic of systemic mastocytosis. Rest of bone marrow without histological alterations.
- Skin biopsy: the c-kit IHC technique was positive for mast cells, corroborating the increased number of mast cells.

Family and community approach
The patient is a computer engineer and lives with his wife and daughter in the same residence. No animals. It is a nuclear family with close relatives. Family Apgar score of 10 (normo-functioning family). According to the WHO family classification model he would be placed in stage III or full extension (birth of all children without emancipation).

Clinical judgement
Mild or indolent systemic mastocytosis. Anaphylaxis.
Shellfish allergy.
Urticaria pigmentosa.

Evolution
Symptomatic improvement in symptoms and skin lesions after systemic and topical treatment with disodium cromoglycate, but two years after diagnosis, a high risk of fracture and high levels of tryptase were observed in the control bone densitometry, so that, with all the evaluation, treatment with interferon was started and maintained for 7 years intermittently until now that it has been suspended and the symptoms have stabilised together with the levels of tryptase (whose elevation represents an aggressive attitude of mastocytosis).
The patient is closely monitored by the allergology department (every 4-5 months) and by the gastrointestinal department due to the dyspepsia caused by the gastric hypersecretion of this pathology.
Currently in good evolution and in a good state of mind.
