70-year-old male, no known drug allergies, hypertensive, non-insulin-dependent type 2 diabetes mellitus, central obesity. Ex-smoker for more than 20 years, SAHS with good adaptation to home CPAP. Permanent anticoagulated AF with normal LVEF. Independent for all basic activities of daily living, moderate effort dyspnoea, NYHA III. On chronic treatment with: rivaroxaban 20 mg, irbesartan 300 mg, doxazosin 4 mg, furosemide 40 mg, alogliptin 12.5 mg and metformin 1000 mg.
He consulted because he had been coughing for 3-4 days with purulent expectoration and dyspnoea on minimal effort, accompanied by febrile fever. He was assessed by his primary care physician who started treatment with bronchodilators, mucolytics and azithromycin 500 mg (he has taken two doses) without evident clinical improvement. He reported no chest pain or palpitations.
Physical examination revealed a baseline oxygen saturation of 89% rising to 95-97% with nasal spectacles at 3 bpm, arrhythmic heart tones, rhonchi and scattered wheezing on auscultation of the posterior lung, abdomen and lower limbs with no appreciable pathological findings.
Laboratory tests showed CRP 9.63 mg/dl, and the rest of the biochemistry, blood count and coagulation were normal. Arterial blood gases: pH 7.49, pCO2 38 mmHg, pO2 54 mmHg, HCO3 29 mmEq/L, O2 saturation 88%, FiO2 21%, lactate 0.8 mmol/L. Antigenuria for Legionella and Pneumococcus was negative. The ECG showed atrial fibrillation at 80 bpm without repolarisation alterations. Chest X-ray: increased right parahilar density with signs of vascular redistribution (see attached image).
Sputum culture showed Kluyvera cryocrescens resistant to ampicillin and cefuroxime, sensitive to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, cefotaxime, ciprofloxacin, cotrimoxazole, gentamicin and piperacillin-tazobactam. Therefore, treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, which had been started on admission, was maintained. He showed good clinical evolution on the ward and was discharged with a diagnosis of community-acquired middle lobe pneumonia due to Kluyvera cryocrescens and partial acute respiratory failure.
Kluyvera cryocrescens is a gram-negative enterobacterium that is a rare cause of relevant infection in humans. However, there are some cases described in the literature, mainly in patients who develop septic processes.
