Reason for consultation
Hallucinations.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
81-year-old patient with a personal history of AF, DM-II, AHT, DLPM, hypothyroidism. On treatment with sintrom 4 mg, enalapril 20 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg/12h, simvastatin 20 mg, Eutirox 100 mcg, omeprazole 20 mg, carvedilol 6.25 mg/12h, gliclazide 30 mg 2/24h, Lorazepam 1 mg/24h. Cholecystectomised.

She came to the primary care clinic accompanied by her son, nervous and distressed, reporting that for the last week she had been suffering from nocturnal visual hallucinations: -I see worms coming out of the headboard of the bed‖. The patient normally goes to the clinic to check her Synthrom and the rest of her underlying pathologies and always comes alone.
On the other hand, for several weeks she has been experiencing split sleep during the night associated with dysuria, polyuria and urinary urgency, as well as a feeling of dysthermia without having put on a thermometer. No other accompanying symptoms.

Physical examination:
Adequate general condition, conscious, oriented, cooperative.
Blood pressure 130/70. Temperature 36 oC.
Glasgow 15. Pupils isochoric normoreactive. No dysarthria. No deviation of oral commissure. Strength, sensitivity and mobility preserved in the 4 extremities. Preserved gait. Romberg without alterations.
When the hallucinations are explored in more detail, she only reports that they only occur when she wakes up during the night and disappear when the light is switched on. He recognises that they are not real. She has moved to another room to sleep as an avoidance mechanism.
Eupneic at rest, well hydrated and perfused.
Cardiac auscultation: arrhythmic tones at 80 bpm.
Respiratory auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur without added noise. O2 sat 97%.
Abdomen globular, distended. Not painful, without abdominal defence. RHA present. Normal bilateral PPR.
Lower limbs: no oedema, signs of CVI.
A combur test was performed and positive leucocytes and nitrites were obtained.
Laboratory tests were requested with a complete blood count, biochemistry (including ions, liver and renal function), CRP, urine and urine culture, thyroid hormones, vitamin B12, folic acid, treponema pallidum, glycosylated hb.

Family and community approach
Patient widowed for about 10 years and living alone. Independent for ABVD. She has a son who lives in the same town, in the block next to her and lives with his wife and 2 children aged 9 and 13. They have a very good relationship with each other and see each other every day.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Uncomplicated urinary tract infection.

Differential diagnosis: onset of dementia, psychiatric disorder, cerebral LOE, side effect of medication, fever, epilepsy, renal insufficiency...

Action plan and evolution
Laboratory tests were requested as indicated above. Treatment was prescribed with amoxicillin 875 mg/clavulanic acid 125 mg/8h for 7 days and hypnotic treatment was modified: decrease for 4-5 days to 1⁄2 comp Lorazepam and start with 1⁄2 comp lormetazepam to subsequently suspend Lorazepam and continue with 1 comp lormetazepam at night. Monitor for fever or new symptoms.

Evolution
The patient was seen a week after starting the antibiotic treatment and modifying the hypnotic treatment in order to obtain the results of the requested blood test.
The results of the analysis were normal except for the systematic urine test, which indicated the urinary tract infection already known with a positive culture for E.coli sensitive to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid.
This time the patient came to the clinic alone and reported clinical improvement of the dysuria and disappearance on the second day of starting treatment of the visual hallucinations for which she had consulted. She had returned to sleep in her usual room.
