A 61-year-old man, resident in the southwest of Madrid, with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) with poor metabolic control, dyslipidaemia and asymptomatic ventricular extrasystoles with a normal cardiac study. During routine control of her DM2, pancytopenia was observed. He also had hyporexia, unquantified weight loss and intense asthenia in recent months, as well as fever up to 38oC. He works in construction, lives in the city, but has a plot of land in the countryside with several dogs.
On arrival he had a BP 122/67 mmHg, HR 91 bpm, SatO2 97% without O2, 37.8oC. Good general condition. Physical examination without relevant findings. Analytically 2 970 leukocytes (lymphocytes 40%, neutrophils 34%), 8.2 g/dL haemoglobin, and 94 000 platelets. Peripheral blood smear confirmed pancytopenia, no blast cells were observed. Coagulation was normal. Glucose 253 mg/dL, glycosylated haemoglobin 7.4%, ESR 22 mm in the first hour, LDH 443 IU/L, ferritin 1157 ng/mL. The proteinogram shows a polyclonal increase in gamma globulins. Tumour markers were negative (CEA, PSA, alpha-1-fetoprotein, HCG-Beta). The autoimmunity study with ANA and ENA is negative.
Chest X-ray and transthoracic echocardiogram were normal, and abdominal ultrasound showed an enlarged spleen (13.7 cm longitudinal axis x 4.7 cm transverse axis).
The microbiological study showed positive antibodies for Leishmania in two determinations, positive IGRA, two negative blood cultures and sterile urine culture. A sternal medullary aspirate was performed during admission. Histological findings showed a reactive medulla with no evidence of infiltration by a neoplastic process. Direct examination showed no bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi or parasites; cultures were subsequently negative.
With these clinical, analytical and ultrasound data, the first diagnostic possibility was visceral leishmaniasis, so treatment was started with liposomal amphotericin B at a dose of 3 mg/kg up to a total accumulated dose of 21 mg/kg, leaving the patient afebrile, and progressively improving the three cell lines until their complete resolution.
Subsequently, the patient received a PCR result for Leishmania in bone marrow, which was positive, confirming the diagnosis.
