A 66-year-old man from the United Kingdom, with no drug allergies, ex-smoker and regular daily consumer of beer and wine. He has no medical history of interest. Surgical history: vasectomy, varicose veins, tonsillectomy. He does not undergo any regular treatment.

In the last year he presented with mild to moderate pain in the left hip, with a sudden increase in pain in the last 2-3 weeks, even at rest, requiring outpatient analgesia. One week later, she came to the emergency department of our hospital as there was no improvement in her condition and intense pain in the dorsal-lumbar spine with difficulty in ambulation. After finding severe osteoarthritis in the left hip, he was discharged home with symptomatic treatment (tapentadol and celecoxib). Despite partial control of the pain, he returned to the emergency department for a sudden loss of strength in all four limbs (predominantly on the left) over 72 hours. She was accompanied by acute confusional syndrome with anterograde amnesia and auditory and visual hallucinations. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with unknown rapid ventricular response was also observed, and effective pharmacological cardioversion was performed in the observation area.

Physical examination revealed fever up to 38.5oC, with acceptable general condition, good hydration of skin and mucous membranes with slight icteric tinge of conjunctival mucosa. Telangiectasias without palmar erythema were seen. Rhythmic heart tones without murmurs and preserved vesicular murmur. Abdomen is nondescript. Lower limbs with slight pretibial oedema. In the neurological examination: he is conscious and oriented, without language alterations with normal cranial nerves; predominantly crural and left tetraparesis (proximal and distal MSD: 3/5, proximal and distal MSI: 2/5, proximal MID: 3/5 and distal MID: 2/5, proximal and distal MII 2/5); ROT are globally weak; and bilateral flexor plantar cutaneous reflexes; no amyotrophies or alterations in sensitivity. The pacemaker cannot be explored.

Complementary tests performed on admission include: Hb 13.8 g/dl; platelets 90,000 /mm3; leukocytes 12,900 /mm3 (N 12,100). In BQ: glucose 100 mg/dl, Creatinine 1.3 mg/dl; Na 128 mEq/l, K 3.66 mEq/l, Ca 9.3 mg/dl, AST 110 U/I, ALT 44 U/I, GGT 92 U/I, total bilirubin 2.61 mg/dl (direct 1.74 mg/dl), CRP 267 mg/l; other biochemistry and venous blood gases were normal. Chest and abdominal X-ray showed no findings. Cranial CT scan with no significant findings and abdominal ultrasound with cholelithiasis. MRI of the spine was requested and blood and urine cultures were taken.


Differential diagnosis
The syndromic diagnosis in our case was acute tetraparesis and febrile syndrome in a 68-year-old male. The main processes to be taken into account in this case are as follows:
1) Infectious: bacteria would be the most related germs, especially Staphylococcus aureus or Mycobacterium tuberculosis (although this usually causes a subacute or chronic picture). They can cause spinal cord damage by direct myelitis or by various foci such as vertebral osteomyelitis, epidural, subdural or subarachnoid abscesses. Other bacteria to take into account are Treponema pallidum responsible for tertiary syphilis and those causing meningitis: Neisseria meningitidis and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Among viruses, we can highlight enterovirus, HSV-2, HIV, those transmitted by arthropods, VZV, EBV, etc. although they usually manifest with a more subacute course. A minority of cases are related to fungal or parasitic infections, which, given the characteristics of our case, would be highly improbable.
2) The vascular phenomena involved may be infarcts or spinal haemorrhages, occurring more frequently in those with certain congenital malformations.
3) Another process that could contribute to our patient's symptoms would be advanced degenerative osteoarticular disease or herniated discs, although this would not justify the fever or the rapidity of the symptoms. 4) Neoplasms such as lymphoma, leukaemia or bone metastases would be other entities to rule out, with an atypical form of presentation.
5) Other causes related to this picture are autoimmune diseases that give rise to transverse myelitis (Behcet's, FAS, SLE, etc.) or inflammatory diseases such as sarcoidosis, although our patient does not seem to meet the criteria for these. Finally, we should consider other less common causes (hereditary metabolic disorders, familial periodic hypokalaemia) if, after an extensive study, we have not reached a clear diagnosis.

Evolution
On admission, after obtaining cultures, empirical antibiotherapy was started with ceftriaxone 2g/12h and levofloxacin 500/24h, which was later modified to linezolid 600 mg/12h after identifying Staphylococcus aureus by MALDI-TOF technique in blood cultures.

MRI of the spine was performed, where several epidural collections were identified at the cervical (C5-C7) and dorsal (C7-T2, T6-T7, T10-T11), anterior and posterior levels, with collapse of the subarachnoid space and slight spinal cord compression, as well as alteration of the signal of the vertebrae in the segments studied, and at the lumbar segment level a lumbar epidural abscess was visualised from L2 to L5 with compression of the cauda equina roots, with bone oedema at L3, L4 and L5 and a focus of left paravertebral pyomyositis at L5-S1 together with 2 small bilateral psoas abscesses (< 2 cm). Cranial MRI was within normal limits. In view of these findings on imaging tests, neurosurgical intervention was decided (multiple laminectomy at C3-C4, T1 and L4-L5 and drainage of epidural collections). Cultures of epidural abscess samples and blood cultures isolated Staphyloccocus aureus MS, modifying antibiotherapy to cloxacillin 2 g/4h. The study was completed with serologies for hepatitis, HIV, CMV, EBV, herpes virus and syphilis, which were negative, and a transthoracic echocardiography with findings of mild mitral and aortic insufficiency, preserved LVEF and a negative study for endocarditis.

Eleven days after surgery, he presented progressive neurological worsening, and a new cervical-dorsal MRI was performed, showing a CSF fistula and a dorsal epidural collection, for which he was reoperated (dorsal reopening and drainage of the epidural collection). Two weeks after admission, there was a clear clinical, analytical and radiological improvement of the collections at all levels, as well as negative blood cultures. After 6 weeks on high-dose cloxacillin, the patient was switched to oral levofloxacin.

During her evolution, pain of mechanical characteristics reappeared in the left hip, and an MRI was requested of this area, showing degenerative changes in the left coxo-femoral joint, with moderate synovial effusion and oedema in the iliac psoas and obturator externus and left gluteus minimus. In addition to probable linear infarction in the proximal third of the femoral diaphysis. It was therefore decided to prolong antibiotic treatment for a further 4 weeks with ceftriaxone and levofloxacin.

One month after finishing antibiotic therapy, it was decided to implant a left hip THA, which was performed without complications, and the patient was currently ambulatory and independent in his daily activities.

Final diagnosis
- Multiple epidural abscesses (cervical, dorsal and lumbar) due to Staphylococcus aureus.
- Secondary multiple vertebral osteomyelitis. Bilateral psoas abscesses.
- Severe osteoarthritis of the left coxo-femoral joint.
- Acute tetraparesis secondary to epidural abscesses.

