A 42-year-old female patient with a history of Sjögren's syndrome and autoimmune thyroiditis was referred to the Uveitis Unit from the Neuroophthalmology Section due to the finding of foci of chorioretinitis and symptoms of temporal scotoma and photopsias in the left eye of three days' duration. The patient had presented two previous episodes of acute temporal scotoma in the left eye in the last five years, which had been controlled in the Neuroophthalmology Section and had been labelled as Toxoplasma optic neuritis due to the finding of positive IgG serology and weak positive IgM serology at the debut of the disease. These two episodes had been treated with co-trimoxazole and prednisone and the temporal scotoma resolved ad integrum.

On examination at the Uveitis Unit, visual acuity (VA) was 1 in both eyes, no pupillary abnormalities were observed, the anterior segment was normal and intraocular pressure was 12 mmHg in both eyes. The fundus of the right eye was normal and the left eye showed a non-inflamed vitreous, the presence of two foci of chorioretinitis and a well-defined optic disc with normal colouring. A visual field examination showed a temporal and inferior arcuate scotoma. Fundus autofluorescence showed an area of hyperautofluorescence around the optic disc extending around the superior temporal arcade. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) showed significant thinning of the outer nuclear layer and disruption of the outer limiting membrane and ellipsoid zone in the area of hyperautofluorescence.
At that time we ruled out the diagnosis of toxoplasmic optic neuritis and, given the history, the findings of temporal scotoma without optic nerve involvement and the evidence of outer retinal alterations according to OCT and autofluorescence, we established the diagnosis of acute idiopathic blind spot enlargement syndrome (AIBSE), associated with chorioretinal manifestations. Treatment with prednisone 30 mg/day in decreasing doses was started and at the last follow-up, six months later, VA was 1 in both eyes, autofluorescence showed a smaller size of the hyperautofluorescence area and OCT showed a recovery of the outer retinal structure. The visual field had also improved, although there was still an increase in the blind spot and an inferior scotoma.
