Reason for consultation
Carla Santamaria Montero is a 35 year old woman who came to the clinic in February 2006, referred by Primary Care, claiming to be a cannabis user since she was 15 years old.

Personal history
No interest.

Family history
Father aged 68, alive and well; mother aged 60 with no medical or psychiatric history of interest. She has a 33-year-old sister whom she defines as a healthy person. She has been legally separated for six years and has an 11-year-old son with whom she lives together with her current partner who is a cocaine user and an insulin-dependent diabetic.

Toxicological history
He reports having his first contact with marijuana in Brazil, where he lived, at the age of 10 years, sporadically, at the age of 15-16 years he began to smoke cannabis regularly until the present day; having periods of partial remissions of short duration and never having sought help in specialised centres. In the last seven months he has increased his consumption to 25 joints a day.
He has never used opiates, amphetamines or other substances of abuse, except cocaine and alcohol. She says that she tried cocaine five years ago and now uses it sporadically - 1 to 2 times every two months - in the form of "nevaditos", always accompanied by alcohol intake in quantities that she cannot quantify. These consumptions are mediated by her current partner who is a cocaine user with clinical criteria of dependence, but she argues that she does not like using it as she is "nervous" under its effects. She decides to ask her primary care doctor for help following her partner's admission to the ICU of her referral hospital for a "sugar rush" which she thinks is linked to cocaine use; she therefore wants to stop using cannabis, so that when he is discharged, she will be free of consumption.

Physical examination
No findings of interest.

Psychopathological examination
Conscious and oriented in the three spheres, she says she feels tired, with insomnia, but with difficulty waking up in the mornings, anhedonia and intense apathy which led her to leave her job (a family business) four months ago; she is currently with no other activity than picking up her son after school and then getting back into the armchair, not carrying out any other activity as she has hired a woman to do the housework. His basic situation is one of sadness without clearly specifying the reason. No alterations in the course or content of his thoughts are observed, neither at the present time nor during consumption, no self/heteroaggressive behaviour is observed, he is aware of his illness and during the interview he appears suspicious and with some explosive traits that he controls and excuses for his "nervousness" as he has been abstinent from cannabis for the last 15 days. Her relations with her parents are very tense as she has left the family business of which she was manager, with her ex-husband they are almost non-existent as he lives in another autonomous community and with her current partner these relations are bad; mostly due to disapproval of her cocaine consumption. Nor are relations with her son good, with whom she does not "get on" despite his young age (11 years old), and with whom she has told him on several occasions that she wants to go and live with his father. The most pleasurable activity she does is reading, she has no relations with friends, blaming the fact that she moved a year and a half ago and "I still haven't met anyone". There is no record of any legal incidents.

Diagnostic judgement
Axis I Cannabis addiction criteria. Cocaine abuse criteria. Amotivational syndrome versus depressive syndrome. AXIS II No evident alterations. AXIS III Mild hypercholesterolemia. AXIS IV Partially unstructured social network without family support.

Treatment
Pharmacological treatment was started with chloracepate up to 15mg/day in a descending pattern and escitalopram up to 20mg/day in an ascending pattern. After 10 days of treatment, she informed us that she could not tolerate the intense sedation she felt, and the escitalopram was replaced by fluoxetine at a dose of 20mg/day, and she has not complained of any symptoms to date.
