Anamnesis
34-year-old man, with no known drug allergies or pathological history of interest. He consulted in April 2017 for a skin lesion of 2 months' evolution on the left inner thigh and painful bilateral inguinal adenopathies. She denied fever or other accompanying systemic symptoms. He had been treated with topical mupirocin for 10 days, prescribed by his primary care physician, with no improvement of the skin lesion.
The patient had worked as a teacher in Côte d'Ivoire for the previous 2 years, where he had been bitten by several mosquitoes and insects, and had arrived in Barcelona 3 months previously. He reported that a neighbour of his in Côte d'Ivoire had developed a chronic pretibial ulcer lasting more than 4 weeks, which she had finally healed on her own, with whom she had shared towels, kitchen utensils... but they had not had any intimate contact. She also explained that during the last 3 months since her arrival in Barcelona she had had 12 sexual contacts, one of them risky and unprotected, with a partner with HIV infection.

Physical examination
There was an erythematous, indurated, warm plaque with a central superficial ulceration on the inner surface of the left thigh, approximately 8 cm in diameter. Multiple bilateral inguinal adenopathies were palpable, mobile, soft, inflammatory, painful on palpation.

Complementary examinations
One month before coming to our clinic she had consulted a reference centre for tropical infections, where she had undergone a blood test with no abnormalities, liver and kidney biochemistry with no findings, negative serology for HIV, hepatitis C and B virus and treponemal tests (HAART), a urine sediment with no findings, a negative stool parasite analysis and a negative tuberculin test.
A skin biopsy showed pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia of the epidermis, with foci of hyperkeratosis and a dense inflammatory infiltrate throughout the dermis, polymorphous, consisting of histiocytic cells of epithelioid habitus, lymphocytes and abundant plasma cells, with no well-constituted granulomas. The vessels showed a prominent endothelium. Immunohistochemistry using anti-Treponema antibody showed the presence of abundant spirochetes in both the dermal and epidermal components, with an epitheliotropic and perivascular pattern. The skin biopsy culture was negative for bacteria, fungi and mycobacteria.
The blood tests were also repeated. The serology on this occasion showed a positive RPR reaginic test at a titre of 1:16 and the TPHA treponemal tests were positive, showing seroconversion.

Diagnosis
The patient was diagnosed with a luetic primoinfection with an extragenital chancre on the left thigh.

Treatment
The patient was treated with a dose of penicillin G benzathine 2,400,000 IU intramuscularly.

Evolution
After 2 weeks the skin lesion had healed, with lymphadenopathy persisting for a further 4 weeks. RPR serology after 3 months was positive at 1:4 and negative after 6 months.
