This is a 63-year-old male, with multiple cardiovascular risk factors (arterial hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus on treatment with oral antidiabetics, dyslipidaemia and obesity), COPD, chronic kidney disease with baseline creatinine of 1.2 mg/dl and permanent atrial fibrillation, who was admitted to our centre in May 2018 in cardiogenic shock requiring vasoactive support and non-invasive mechanical ventilation. The patient had dilated cardiomyopathy of probable enolic origin, with severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction with an estimated left ventricular ejection fraction of 20%, with implantation of a single-chamber implantable cardioverter defibrillator as primary prevention in 2003.

The admission echocardiogram showed severe aortic stenosis and double mitral lesion with moderate insufficiency and mild stenosis of probable rheumatic origin with significant calcification of the leaflets. Given the patient's situation and personal history (EuroScore II 19.35%), it was decided to implant a 29 mm Edwards SapienTM transcatheter aortic prosthesis via the transfemoral route by the interventional cardiology team, and percutaneous treatment of the mitral valve was ruled out at the same surgical time. The post-implantation echocardiogram showed a normofunctioning aortic prosthesis with a mean transprosthetic gradient of 5 mm Hg and mitral regurgitation unchanged from the preoperative echocardiogram.

Four months after the procedure, the patient was readmitted to our centre for multiple inappropriate shocks of the implantable cardioverter defibrillator, accompanied by fever and chills. We analysed the device data, and observed multiple episodes of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, most of which ended with a shock, and which were undetected by the patient. All episodes were preceded by marked bradycardia requiring pacemaker pacing. Pacemaker pacing was increased to a minimum heart rate of 75 bpm and blood cultures were drawn and tested positive for Staphylococcus epidermidis. Given these results, the persistence of fever and elevated acute phase reactants and the history of TAVI implantation, infective endocarditis was suspected and a transesophageal echocardiogram was performed. The echocardiogram showed a large hypoechoic vegetation measuring 4.3 × 1.9 cm, with a deflected irregular border extending from 1 cm below the valve plane to 3 cm above the valve plane, filling most of the TAVI stent and causing the prosthesis to behave as a moderate-severe stenosis with a peak gradient of 38 mm Hg without insufficiency. The mitral valve had extensive degenerative changes, with severe calcification of the leaflets and subvalvular apparatus, and a severe central insufficiency jet.

Antibiotic treatment with daptomycin and fosfocimin was started and the case was discussed in a medical-surgical session. Given the lack of clinical and echocardiographic improvement, surgery was decided. During surgery, large vegetations were observed on the ventricular and aortic side of the prosthesis. The TAVI was explanted and an aortic valve replacement with a 25 mm Magna Ease biological aortic prosthesis was performed. In addition, a mitral valve replacement with a 25 mm Magna Ease biological prosthesis was performed.

The explanted prosthesis was analysed microscopically with Gram stain, where gram-positive cocci were observed in clusters, and cultures of the prosthesis were positive for Staphylococcus epidermidis.

Subsequently, the patient had a good postoperative evolution, with no associated complications, and was discharged from hospital after completing the 5-week course of antibiotic treatment.
