An 83-year-old man with a history of hypertension, stage D COPD with severe functional impairment and a recent diagnosis of ascending colon neoplasia treated conservatively due to comorbidity. She also had stage 3 CKD and symptomatic BPH requiring permanent bladder catheterisation.
She was admitted due to deterioration of her general condition over a week's evolution and because she had noticed purple urine colouring in the catheterisation bag. She had no fever or other focal symptoms. Examination revealed signs of severe calorie malnutrition (BMI 15.8 kg/m2) despite an acceptable oral intake and taking hyperproteic nutritional supplements.
Additional tests requested on admission included: deterioration of renal function and anaemic syndrome, both stable compared to previous controls (creatinine 2.10 mg/dl, urea 173 mg/dl, Hb 107 g/l), urine smear with leucocyturia and urine culture which 48 hours later was positive for E. coli (> 100,000 CFU/ml).
The purple bag urine syndrome is a rare entity that characteristically affects elderly women with prolonged bladder catheterisation and debilitated by chronic diseases. The presence of previous urological pathology, prolonged bed rest and chronic constipation are predisposing factors.
It occurs in the presence of high concentrations of bacteria with indoxyl sulphatase/phosphatase activity (Proteus, Providencia, Pseudomonas or E. coli, among others) that thrive in an alkaline environment. It is not usually associated with increased morbidity, and in most cases resolves with catheter replacement, hygienic measures and antibiotic treatment. In general, infections are not very symptomatic, and most patients are afebrile, without leukocytosis or other relevant data.
The purple colour is due to the conversion of indoxyl sulphate, a metabolite of tryptophan, into indoxyl by the action of bacterial sulphatase/phosphatase enzymes. Once in the bag, when it comes into contact with oxygen, it is transformed into indigo and indirubin, the mixture of which gives rise to a purple hue. The oxidation process takes a few hours, so that initially the urine looks normal and the colouring is seen some time later in the collection bag. In this case, we believe that the use of nutritional supplements rich in tryptophan played an important role in the development of this syndrome.
