A 32-year-old man consulted in February 2009 for an oedematous, pruritic, erythematous and hot plaque on the right thigh of 7 days' evolution. The clinical picture began at the end of January with the appearance of an initial erythematous, hot plaque accompanied by oedema on the abdominal wall, which disappeared after 3-4 days; a week later he presented another lesion of the same characteristics in the inguinal region with a similar course. Subsequently, migrated plaques appeared on the right thigh and ankle. He was admitted to a private clinic where he received treatment with ceftriaxone plus clindamycin for clinical symptoms compatible with cellulitis, and was discharged because of a favourable evolution. During hospitalisation he underwent abdominal ultrasound and venous echo-Doppler of the lower limbs, which were normal. When his symptoms reappeared, he consulted our department. She had no significant personal history except that she had travelled to several cities on the Caribbean coast of Colombia between 1 and 20 January of that year and had repeatedly consumed raw fish ("cebiche"). A biopsy of the lesion on the right thigh and the following complementary studies were performed: HIV serology, which was non-reactive, white blood cell count: 6400/mm3 (eosinophils 11%), erythrocyte sedimentation rate 8 mm, normal ocular fundus. Soft tissue ultrasound: in the depth of the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the posteroexternal aspect of the right thigh root, polycyclic pre-aponeurotic nodular formation measuring 56 × 40 × 16 mm with no fluid collections at that level. With a clinical diagnosis compatible with gnathostomiasis, he was treated with ivermectin (200 μg/kg/d for 2 days) with good evolution. The pathological report of the biopsy obtained from the skin lesion was "eosinophilic panniculitis". One month later, the patient relapsed and received a second course of treatment with the same drug. Periodic check-ups up to April 2012 showed no relapses.

The genus Gnasthostoma belongs to the order Spirurida and is characterised by the need for one or more intermediate hosts in its life cycle. The genus has 13 species, but only four of them have been associated with human cases: G. spinigerum, which is generally found in wild and domestic cats and dogs in India, China, Japan and other Asian countries; G. hispidum, which is found in domestic and wild pigs in Europe, Asia and Australia; G. doloresi in wild boar; and G. nipponicum in weasels in Japan.
