The case we present is a 73-year-old man, with no known drug allergies and a former smoker for more than 40 years with an accumulated consumption of 30 packets/year. His medical history includes mild COPD stage GOLD 1 with 1/4 baseline dyspnoea, lumbosciatica with irradiation to the right lower limb for approximately 10 years secondary to a herniated disc that was being monitored by Traumatology and an aortic elongation under study by Cardiovascular Surgery, which was pending angioCT. With regard to the epidemiological setting, she lives in a rural environment, has two mules and a horse, several dogs and chickens, all apparently healthy although without strict veterinary control. She refers to the extraction of a right lower third maxillary molar two months ago without prophylaxis and no other previous surgical interventions. He is being treated with tramadol 37.5 mg / Paracetamol 325 mg every 8 hours.

She came to the emergency department for fever of up to 39oC with shivering and chills of 48 hours of evolution that responded to paracetamol, with no clear predominance during the day. She did not present pulmonary, digestive or abdominal symptoms as a possible cause, mentioning only that for about 2 months she had been experiencing pain in the right flank towards the paravertebral musculature, with right sciatica and paraesthesia in the external face of the right thigh, more intense than her usual symptoms.

Examination revealed a temperature of 37.8oC and the rest of the vital signs were under control. The general condition was acceptable, with no evidence of infection in the recently extracted molar, no palpable peripheral lymphadenopathy, no stiff neck, and no relevant skin lesions. Cardiopulmonary auscultation and abdominal examination were unremarkable, within normal limits, and there was pain on pressure in the right paravertebral muscles with the presence of muscle contracture, with negative Lassegue and Bragard manoeuvres.

On arrival at the ED, blood tests and chest X-ray showed the following findings: haemoglobin (Hb) 15.2g/gl, leukocytes 8200 cells/mcL with 73% neutrophilia, platelets 159,000 PLT/mcL. Coagulation with PT% 98% and biochemistry with glucose, creatinine, ions and hepatic profile within normality, with only C-reactive protein (CRP) at 106 mg/l. AP and lateral chest X-ray showed aortic elongation with no other alterations in the pulmonary parenchyma. In the emergency department, the patient was classified as febrile syndrome of short duration without focus, urine and blood cultures were taken and he was referred to the Infectious Diseases Department, where empirical antibiotic treatment was started with Amoxicillin 875 mg/clavulanic acid 125 mg every 8 hours orally.

Twenty hours after extraction, 2/2 flasks of S. equi subspecies zooepidemicus sensitive to penicillin (MIC 0.023 mcg/ml) and to ceftriaxone (MIC 0.06 mcg/ml) grew in the blood cultures. The Microbiology service informed the PROA group of our hospital of this finding, who contacted the patient by telephone, recommending admission for study and optimisation of the antimicrobial treatment. Once on the ward, both the clinical history and the complementary tests performed were similar to those obtained in the emergency department, a new "cold" blood culture was taken, as the patient had responded favourably to amoxicillin/clavulanic acid at home, treatment was started with ceftriaxone 2 g/IV/12 hours and the following examinations were requested:
- Transthoracic echocardiogram: the heart valves showed no stenosis or insufficiency with preserved contractility and no evidence of infective endocarditis.
- Thoracic-abdominal CT scan with iodinated contrast: marked aortic elongation with mural thrombosis and aneurysmal dilatation of 5 cm in the descending thoracic aorta; abdomen with no relevant findings; no evidence of infectious focus in the examination.
- Dorsolumbar MRI: extensive vertebral and disc degenerative changes with stenosis of the foramina at L1-L2, L2-L3, L3-L4, L4-L5 and L5-S1, the most striking and causing almost total occlusion of the right foramina at L3-L4 and L4-L5. There are no signs of oedema of infectious aspect in the bodies, nor irregularities of the epiphyseal platforms, nor in the intervertebral discs.

The urine culture taken in the emergency department was negative, as was the blood culture taken on the ward (due to previous antibiotic therapy). In view of the results of the complementary tests and given the characteristics of the micro-organism causing the bacteraemia, a test was performed which proved to be diagnostic.

Differential diagnosis
The case we present is a 79-year-old man who consulted the emergency department due to a fever of 4-5 days' evolution and a flare-up over the last 2 months of chronic pain in the paravertebral muscles, with growth in blood cultures of S. equi subspecies zooepididemicus. In the case of a patient with bacteraemia, an adequate anamnesis and physical examination is essential to determine the severity of the infection and its possible origin or focus. We must therefore determine the place of acquisition of the bacteraemia (in the community, nosocomial or healthcare-associated), ask whether the patient has any underlying disease and collect clinical, exploratory and epidemiological data to guide us in the search for a focal point. In our case, the patient was a male with no history of interest except for recurrent right sciatica, rural environment and a molar extraction 2 months ago, who was haemodynamically stable and with no signs of alarm on examination, and the following differential diagnosis was established for the search for a possible focal point:

Although it is not a microorganism found in the oral cavity, so the history of manipulation in this case was not relevant, endocarditis had to be ruled out, as in some series S. equi bacteraemia is associated with endocarditis in up to 25-50% of cases. No other clinical, exploratory or echocardiographic data were found, nor did it meet major and minor criteria for infective endocarditis, so that even in the absence of transesophageal echocardiography this possibility seemed unlikely, not being totally ruled out, but relegated to second place in view of the possibility of other alternative foci.

In the search for other possible foci and given the symptoms of pain at the paravertebral level, the study was extended with imaging tests in view of the possibility of a bacteraemia that had settled on previously pathological vertebrae causing spondylodiscitis, since, although infrequent, there is a case in the literature caused by this germ2. An MRI of the dorsal-lumbar spine showed vertebral degenerative changes, especially at L3-L4 and L4-L5, but without the presence of an infectious focus at this level. The thoraco-abdominal CT scan showed the presence of a known aneurysmal dilatation at the level of the descending thoracic aorta together with mural thrombosis unchanged with respect to previous studies. One possibility could be infection of the aneurysm or thrombus behaving as an endovascular infection, since this microorganism has also been described in association with aortic aneurysms3,4. Unfortunately, the second blood culture was negative, and we could not rule out the possibility that this was due to transient bacteraemia (if persistent, it would be in favour of endovascular infection), or to having received previous antibiotherapy. Given the patient's stability, a "washout period" of antibiotherapy could have been carried out, suspending them temporarily and extracting the blood culture later, which would have helped us in the diagnosis, but this possibility was not considered at the time by the doctor in charge.

Other possible foci of bacteraemia due to S. equi subspecies zooepidemicus described as meningitis, arthritis or pneumonia were ruled out as there were no clinical or exploratory data of neurological or joint involvement or a chest CT scan without condensation, so the possible diagnosis after differential diagnosis would be primary bacteraemia, endovascular infection of aneurysm/wall thrombus or less likely infective endocarditis.

Evolution
The patient evolved favourably with the prescribed treatment and remained afebrile. Given that bacteraemia due to S. equi subspecies zooepidemicus has been associated with aneurysm infection and our patient had a descending aortic aneurysm with mural thrombus, a PET-CT scan was requested with the following result:
- PET-CT with 18F-FDG: dilatation is visualised at the level of the aortic arch and descending aorta together with the presence of hypermetabolic foci in the descending thoracic aorta at the level of its left contour (SUVmax=7.51), affecting the wall and extending to the adjacent soft tissues without observing evident uptake at the level of the thrombus. These findings are compatible with an inflammatory process, aortitis, in the clinical context of the patient of possible infectious origin. No cardiac pathological foci were observed in the endocardium or cardiac valves suggesting the existence of endocarditis. In the axial skeleton there were no lesions or evident metabolic increase.

Thoracic CT: We observed marked aortic elongation with mural thrombosis and aneurysmal dilatation of 5 cm at the level of the descending thoracic aorta. There was no evidence of an infectious focus in the examination.
PET-CT (Axial): The image shows the presence of hypermetabolic foci in the descending thoracic aorta at the level of its left contour (SUVmax=7.51), affecting the wall and extending to adjacent soft parts. No uptake was observed at the level of the thrombus. These findings are compatible with aortitis.
PET-CT (Coronal and Sagittal): In this last image we observed hypermetabolic foci in the descending thoracic aorta at the level of its left contour, in the clinical context of the patient of possible infectious origin.

In view of the PET-CT findings, 2 weeks were completed with ceftriaxone 2 g/IV/12 hours and then 6 weeks with levofloxacin 750 mg orally (MIC 1 mcg/ml). The Cardiovascular Surgery Service was consulted and, given the findings of an aneurysm of 5 cm in diameter, he was referred to the outpatient department for deferred intervention after healing of the current infectious process. Control blood cultures 2 weeks and 2 months after antibiotic therapy was completed were negative and in the control angioTC the mural thrombus persisted and the dilatation had not increased, pending scheduling of intervention by Cardiovascular Surgery.

Diagnosis
Aortitis over descending aortic aneurysm due to S. equi subspecies zoonoticus with secondary bacteraemia in a patient with contact with equine cattle.
