We present the case of a 45-year-old woman, a butcher by profession with no personal history of interest, who came to the emergency department for general malaise of a week's duration, associated with arthromyalgia, fever, headache, dry cough and odynophagia. After an initial assessment with no alarming data, the patient was discharged from hospital with a suspected diagnosis of influenza syndrome without specific treatment. Twenty-four hours later she consulted again due to worsening of the clinical condition, this time reporting thermometric fever, cervicalgia, arthralgia and abdominal pain, as well as describing choluria as a new clinical sign.
Physical examination revealed abdominal pain located in the right hypochondrium with positive Murphy and polyarthritis. Initial complementary tests included leukocytosis with left deviation, total bilirubin of 3.3 mg/dl at the expense of the direct fraction, mild hypertransaminasemia, and CRP of 269. Given these findings, and the suspicion of acute biliary pathology, an abdominal ultrasound was performed in the emergency department and was anodyne. Based on the presence of fever, polyarthritis and analytical alterations, it was decided to admit the patient on suspicion of febrile symptoms with a probable abdominal focus.
Once on the ward, mild jaundice was observed on the mucous membranes. The first suspicion was acute cholangitis, so blood cultures were taken and Ceftriaxone was started empirically, with no improvement in the following 24-48 hours. Laboratory tests were extended with serology for hepatotropic virus and hepatic autoimmunity and it was decided to perform an urgent abdominal CT scan with no evidence of cholecystitis or cholangitis.
Given the persistence of the clinical manifestations and having ruled out the presence of biliary pathology to justify the fever and the analytical alterations, the patient was re-interviewed about the onset of the symptoms, stating that she had suffered a cut three weeks prior to the onset of the clinical picture (butcher patient with probable contact with contaminated animals).
Given the patient's epidemiological history and the time elapsed, as well as the symptoms reported, febrile syndrome in the context of infection by Coxiella Burnetti was suspected as a diagnostic possibility. Empirical doxycycline was prescribed at a dose of 100 mg every 12 hours. After six days of treatment, there was clinical and laboratory improvement. The serology against C. Burnetii (IgM Ac) was positive, confirming the diagnosis of Q fever.
