Reason for consultation
"I feel anxious".

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests)
Anamnesis: 38 year old female patient, who the day before suffers an episode of anxiety for the second time at work (first episode 2 weeks ago), feeling pressure in the chest, unable to speak, generally "very bad". She suffered syncope after anxiety attack, attended a private hospital where she was given diazepam and was discharged home, recommended to make an appointment with a psychiatrist.
Two weeks ago he started to feel unwell at work, very sleepy and tired. He bought a Redbull, which he drank after 2-3 coffees beforehand, and started to feel worse. She manifested blurred vision, tachycardia, general malaise and started hyperventilating. She was laid down for 30 minutes and then taken home.
A diagnosis of anxiety disorder was made and she was placed on temporary disability. Treatment with lorazepam 1 mg on demand was prescribed and an appointment was made in 1 week for the first psychological interview at the health centre.
Follow-up: in the first psychotherapy session, the patient commented on the problems in her relationship with her partner and with her parents. She says that they live together but that there are many arguments. The father drinks alcohol more than is logical. It bothers her that he drinks too much and that he has responsibilities (such as picking up the children).
In their marital life, she thinks that she carries all the weight of the activities and that the husband sees it as normal that the wife does most of the household things: picking up the children, picking them up, fixing backpacks, taking them to the grandparents, doing the laundry, and other issues of cohabitation. She is currently experiencing doubts in her relationship with her partner.
In addition, problems with her eldest son, who is seeing a psychologist after hearing from his school tutor that he is very shy, very introverted and seems sad. The child has been angry at times saying things like "I shouldn't have been born", "I'm stupid", and head-butting.

Family and community approach
The patient is married and has two sons. This is an integrated nuclear family. The patient lives at home with her husband and children. She has a stable job and an apparently good social network.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Depressive syndrome (major depressive episode). Anxiety disorder.

Action plan and evolution
Sertraline 50mg/day is added to the anxiolytic treatment. Support activities are recommended (such as writing down her thoughts and feelings in a notebook). She is rescheduled to continue with her psychological interviews.

Evolution: in 2nd psychotherapy she reports persistent tiredness and fatigue; however, improvement in crying and in her family issues (better conversation with them). She still does not feel like leaving the house, despite going out to pick up her children and visit her parents. She has written a little in her notebook. She is meeting a friend today. With some people she did feel like seeing, with others she doesn't even want to meet. She has stopped smoking. The patient is easily tearful and finds it difficult to read her notes in her book. Sertraline dose is increased to 100 mg/day.

In the 3rd psychotherapy she tells us that she attended the MUTUA a few days ago. She was told that the medication takes a long time to take effect. She reports being more active. She feels like going out more. She reports an improvement in her family relationship. She has continued to write in her notebook. Continues not to smoke. She meets frequently with several good friends who give her emotional support. She is advised to continue with her medication.

In 4th psychotherapy refers to nightmares for the first 2 weeks (noting this in her notebook). She mentions that she is less active, a little more sleepy and tired. She is very afraid that she will have another crisis when she returns to work. Her medication was changed to Venlafaxine 75 mg/12h.

In the 5th psychotherapy she was discharged from her temporary incapacity to return to work. She reported significant improvement. She makes her reflections. She complies well with her medication. She is much more active, sometimes a little tired. She is watching TV series, reading about mindfulness, listening to podcasts and attending the gym. She has not needed to take rescue anxiolytics. She has not smoked for 6 weeks. BP: 130/85 mmHg. She is recommended to continue with medication and some books and films for mood improvement.

In the 6th psychotherapy she reported feeling very, very well. Proud of not smoking any more. There are always problems at home, such as confrontations with the husband or that the father changes his character when he drinks, but she is coping better, and writes about it in her book. She is reading a book (novel) recommended by her sister, she loves it. BP 117/74 mmHg. He continues with medication.

In 7th psychotherapy she is doing very well. She had a problem of emotional management at work, but she was able to solve it. She thanks us for the positive progress she has made so far and says "without your help, doctors, I would not have made it". If a complete response is achieved, treatment should continue for at least 6 more months at the same dose as the cure to avoid relapse.
