42-year-old male. No RAMS. Smoker. Former drug addict. Chronic hidradenitis with repeated infections and bilateral gluteal ulcer. No treatment. He came to the emergency department for an autolytic attempt, bilateral purulent gluteal ulcer, haematuria, renal failure (Cr 6 mg/dl) and anaemia (Hg 2.7 g/dl). Transfer to the ICU was decided. Bilateral hydronephrosis was found, bilateral nephrostomy was performed with subsequent haemofiltrations. He evolved favourably from the urological point of view, presenting diarrhoeal syndrome that required transfer to Internal Medicine. M.I. Examination: sensory preserved. Mild dehydration. Afebrile. BP: 110/80 mmHg. ACP and abdomen anodyne. MMII: oedematous. Pulses present. Oozing gluteal cellulitis with extension to the perianal region. Complementary tests (to highlight): normocytic anaemia (Hg 8.5 g/dl). Creatinine 2.27 mg/dl. Potassium 6.4 meq/l. CRP 6.42 mg/dl. Proteinuria in 24-hour urine: 1.596 g/24h. Serum PCR for Polyomavirus BK: positive. Gluteal ulcer culture: Bacteroid Fragilis. Quantification of light chains: kappa 596 mg/dl, lambda 297 mg/dl. Hormonal study: ACTH 55 pgr/ml, cortisol at 8 hours 9.41 mg/dl, free cortisol in 24-hour urine 6.58 mg. Aldosterone < 6.25. Serology, blood cultures, mantoux and lowestein in urine, celiac and thyroid profile and autoimmunity study: negative. EKG: null. Chest and abdominal X-ray: no findings. CT scan: bilateral pleural effusion, bladder clots and free intraperitoneal fluid. Colonoscopy: non-specific proctitis. Abdominal ultrasound: bilateral hydronephrosis. Mild ascites. ENG: demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. Echocardiogram: normal. No data of infiltrative cardiomyopathy. PAMO: 4.6% of eosinophils, 3.6% of plasma cells and increased iron in SMF Evolution: during his hospitalisation, interconsultations with different specialities were requested. Clinical suspicion of amyloidosis was confirmed by rectal biopsy and skin biopsy of gluteal ulcer, which were positive for AA amyloid, with subsequent sampling and confirmation in the rest of the organs. The evolution was favourable with fluidcortisone, oral hydrocortisone and doxycycline. Clinical judgement: multisystem amyloidosis secondary to chronic suppurative hydrosadenitis. Action plan: the patient attends for check-ups in Internal Medicine. He is currently on therapy with Adalimumab following the approval of this drug by the European Commission in 2015 for cases of chronic HS with inadequate response to conventional treatments.
