History
Personal history Male, 44 years old, from Bolivia, accountant by profession in his country, had been living in Spain for three years. His personal history included Guillain-Barré syndrome in his youth, pulmonary tuberculosis, incorrectly treated, and malaria. In 2005 he was admitted to hospital in another region due to septic shock secondary to infection by a filamentous dimorphic fungus, and was diagnosed with disseminated histoplasmosis after isolation in bronchoaspirate, blood cultures and bone marrow. Sexually transmitted HIV infection was detected with an initial CD4+ cell count of 139 cells/μL and high viral load. He was treated with amphotericin B and continued secondary prophylaxis with itraconazole 200 mg/day, trimethoprim + sulfamethoxazole 400 mg/day (primary prophylaxis of Pneumocystis jirovecii) and treatment with emtricitabine + tenofovir + efavirenz was started with good virological response, maintaining CD4+ cell count around 200.

Current illness
The patient attended the emergency department with headaches, vomiting, gait disturbance and slurred speech of one week's duration.

Physical examination
Physical examination revealed nuchal rigidity, fever of 38oC, slurred speech and gait ataxia. The rest of the examination was unremarkable.

Complementary examinations
The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained was a clear fluid at normal pressure with 110 lymphocyte-predominant cells (90%), protein 384 mg/dL, glycorrhachia 24 mg/dL and ADA 18 U/L. CSF culture, smear microscopy, luteum and India ink were negative.
Blood tests were unremarkable. Sputum microbiological studies and blood cultures were negative. Chest X-ray showed fibrous tracts in the right upper lobe and residual granulomas. Cranial CT scan showed signs of cortico-subcortical atrophy.

Evolution
Suspicion of tuberculous meningoencephalitis led to treatment with four drugs, with a slight initial improvement in both clinical symptoms and CSF parameters.
Two months later, he was readmitted for similar symptoms and a new lumbar puncture was performed with the following characteristics: glycosuria 35 mg/dL, protein 310 mg/dL, 100 cells with a predominance of lymphocytes (90%), ADA 14 U/L. Culture, smear microscopy, India ink and fungal culture were negative. Again the CT scan and cranial MRI with contrast were unremarkable. Tuberculostatic treatment with four drugs was maintained due to the suspicion of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis while awaiting Lowenstein culture and antibiogram. Clinically, the patient deteriorated progressively with incoercible vomiting that only subsided with dexamethasone, diplopia, slurred speech, sphincter relaxation, disorientation and inability to walk. Given the severity of the symptoms, the lack of response to treatment and the history of fungal sepsis, it was decided to start empirical treatment with amphotericin B with a rapid clinical response, which was maintained for four weeks and secondary prophylaxis with itraconazole was continued.
Cultures, smear microscopy, Lowenstein, mycobacteria PCR, lue serology and India ink staining were negative. CSF serology for Brucella, Borrelia, Cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, herpes simplex virus 1, 2 and herpes viruses group 6, 7 and 8, Toxoplasma gondii, Enterovirus and JC virus was negative. In serum, serology against Taenia solium was negative as was PCR determination for Histoplasma capsulatum, although serology was positive for IgG. Serology for Blastomyces, Coccidioides and Paracoccidiodes was negative.
Four months after this episode, the patient was readmitted with the same symptoms. The CSF characteristics were similar to those of previous admissions. It was decided to initiate prolonged treatment for four months with liposomal amphotericin B and to continue secondary prophylaxis with weekly liposomal amphotericin B. The evolution has been favourable with no recurrence. The evolution has been favourable with no subsequent recurrences and normalisation of CSF cytobiochemical parameters.

Clinical judgement
Neurohistoplasmosis.
