We present the case of a 25-year-old male from Equatorial Guinea who had been a student in Spain for 5 months. He had no drug allergies and was an occasional cocaine user and sporadic tobacco smoker. His past history included childhood episodes of malaria and typhoid fever, and sexual practices at risk for sexually transmitted infections. The patient had undergone regular check-ups in his country, having been tested for HBV, HCV, lues and HIV, being negative in his last check-up prior to travelling to Spain. He consulted the emergency department because he presented with a non-thermometric fever and progressive weight loss, and was diagnosed with mild anaemia and lymphocytosis, for which he was discharged with a diagnosis of influenza syndrome and referred to the Infectious Diseases Department. On examination at the outpatient clinic, fever, weight loss and anaemia persisted, so laboratory tests were requested, including serology for HIV, HBV, HCV and lues, thick gout and Plasmodium antigen, as well as an abdominal ultrasound and a coeliac disease study. He was reviewed in consultations after the results of the tests requested, with persistent fever and positive serology for HIV, and was therefore admitted for further study. On examination on admission, the patient was febrile (38.5oC), with a blood pressure of 125/100 mmHg, without cutaneous-mucosal lesions or adenopathies. Cardiopulmonary auscultation showed rhythmic heart sounds without audible murmurs and a preserved vesicular murmur. On abdominal palpation, there was discomfort in the right hypochondrium without defence and no visceromegaly was observed. The rest of the examination showed no other notable alterations.
In the imaging tests requested from consultations prior to admission, both the chest X-ray and the abdominal ultrasound showed no alterations. The haemogram showed normocytic and normochromatic anaemia with haemoglobin (Hb) of 10.3 g/dL, 4,460 leukocytes/μL (neutrophils: 62.2%, lymphocytes: 1.2%, eosinophils: 0.2%) and 312,000 platelets/μL. Biochemistry showed hypertransaminasemia (GOT: 139 U/L, GPT: 146 U/L), with CPK of 678 mg/dL, ferritin of 1,540 ng/mL and C-reactive protein of 47.34 mg/L. Renal function and ions were in the normal range, although there was proteinuria in the non-nephrotic range with hypoalbuminaemia. Coagulation times were prolonged compared to control (PT: 1.18-fold; aPTT: 1.25-fold). HIV plasma viral load was over 2,000,000 copies/ml and CD4 count showed 65 cells/μL. He was HBV surface antigen positive with 1,278 viral DNA copies/mL. The following tests were negative: HCV and syphilis serology, cryptococcal blood antigen, Plasmodium study (thick blood smear and antigen), blood cultures, CSF analysis and culture, sputum smear (two samples) and tuberculin test. Given the diagnosis of HIV infection, antiretroviral treatment with HBV coverage was started with raltegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir.
Given the persistence of fever and constitutional symptoms, blood cultures for mycobacteria were taken and fibrobronchoscopy, fundus visualisation and computed tomography (CT) of the chest and abdomen were requested. The sputum smears of the fibrobronchoscopy specimens were negative, and no choroidal tubercles were seen in the ocular fundus.
The patient remained afebrile, with palpable laterocervical and submandibular lymphadenopathy and abdominal pain. Abdominal CT scan showed mild splenomegaly with multiple poorly defined non-cystic hypodense lesions scattered throughout the splenic parenchyma, compatible with microabscesses. In the thorax, multiple necrotic adenopathies of pathological size were seen, mainly at the right supraclavicular, hilar and mediastinal levels, in addition to a tree-shaped pattern in the lung parenchyma.

Differential diagnosis
We are dealing with a patient with a recent diagnosis of HIV infection who presented with fever and weight loss, together with splenomegaly with splenic microabscesses, as well as disseminated lymphadenopathy and a tree-like pattern in the pulmonary parenchyma. Given the clinical presentation of our patient and the findings on imaging tests, the following differential diagnoses should be considered:
Solid neoplasms. Despite the persistent fever, the possibility of a solid neoplasm could not be ruled out at the outset in this patient, given the constitutional symptoms he presented. However, after performing a CT scan of the chest and abdomen, this entity was ruled out. The presence of multiple pathological lymphadenopathies, together with the existence of B symptoms (fever and weight loss), made it necessary to consider the presence of lymphoma, which can give rise to splenic lesions that simulate microabscesses, although the necrotic lymphadenopathies observed in our patient are more typical of other entities. Among the lymphoproliferative disorders, the possibility of Castleman's disease should be considered, a rare entity characterised by systemic symptoms including fever, weakness, severe weight loss, generalised lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly. Pathological examination of lymph nodes reveals angiofollicular hyperplasia, atrophic germinal centres surrounded by concentric layers of small B cells, with a typical onion skin appearance, and intense interfollicular plasma cell hyperplasia. In HIV-infected patients it appears mainly in the presence of active human herpesvirus type 8 (HHV-8) infection.
Kaposi's sarcoma, which may cause splenic lesions that can be mistaken for microabscesses on imaging tests, may also be considered as a neoplasm. The absence of typical skin lesions would militate against this entity.
Infections. In the presence of fever, lymphadenopathy and splenic microabscesses in a patient with HIV infection, a number of infectious agents should be considered as the cause of the clinical picture. For example, disseminated Pneumocystis jirovecii infection can cause splenic abscesses, but these occur in the context of severe Pneumocystis pneumonia or in patients on inhaled pentamidine prophylaxis, which protects only the lungs. Another entity to consider is disseminated Aspergillus spp. infection, which can cause splenic lesions in HIV-infected patients. In addition to a low CD4 count, as in our patient, other predisposing factors such as treatment with corticosteroids or the presence of severe neutropenia are common, and it would be expected to find greater pulmonary involvement than that seen in our case.
Hepatosplenic candidiasis presents with microabscesses in the liver and spleen and is associated with fever, but it is a typical entity in haematological patients when they recover from neutropenia, so it would be very unlikely in the case we present.
Another entity to be taken into account is bacillary angiomatosis due to Bartonella henselae, which can affect the spleen, but our patient did not have the typical skin lesions. Finally, within the infectious aetiology, the micro-organism most frequently associated with splenic microabscesses in patients with HIV infection is Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Disseminated tuberculosis presents with fever and lymphadenopathy in multiple territories, often necrotic, and can cause hepatosplenomegaly and, sometimes, images suggestive of microabscesses at the hepatic and splenic level, making it the most likely entity in our patient.
Regardless of the cause of the clinical picture, given the persistence of fever, elevated ferritin and splenomegaly, the presence of haemophagocytic syndrome should be taken into account, which may be idiopathic or associated with tumours or infections. For diagnosis, five of the following eight criteria must be met: high fever (greater than 38.3 oC); elevated ferritin (greater than 500 ng/mL); splenomegaly; at least two cytopenias (Hb less than 9 g/dL, platelet count less than 100,000/ μL, less than 1. 000 neutrophils/μL); hypertriglyceridaemia (greater than 265 mg/dL) or hypofibrinogenemia (less than 1.5 g/dL); haemophagocytosis (in bone marrow, spleen or lymph nodes); low or absent natural killer (NK) cell activity; and elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor alpha (soluble CD25) (greater than 2,400 U/mL).

Evolution
It was decided to start empirical tuberculostatic treatment with rifampicin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol and isonised, and a fine needle aspiration puncture (FNA) of a left submandibular adenopathy was performed, with a negative smear test, so a surgical biopsy was performed at a later stage. The patient initially remained febrile and ferritin levels rose to a maximum of 7,146 ng/mL. Analysis of NK cell activity was normal, but soluble interleukin-2 receptor alpha was elevated with a value of 3,135 U/mL. Bone marrow biopsy was not performed to confirm or rule out haemophagocytosis because the patient started to improve clinically and analytically. Finally, blood cultures for mycobacteria grew M. tuberculosis, sensitive to streptomycin, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, isoniazid and ethambutol. Pathological examination of the lymph node biopsy revealed necrotising granulomatous lymphadenitis, with negative Ziehl-Neelsen stain, PAS and Grocott stain, without findings suggestive of lymphoma or Castleman's disease. Polymerase chain reaction for HHV-8 was positive in blood.

Final diagnosis
Disseminated tuberculosis with splenic, pulmonary and lymph node involvement in a patient with HIV infection. HBV and HHV-8 co-infection.

