Anamnesis
75-year-old man with a personal history of hypertension, dyslipidaemia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hyperuricaemia, acute myocardial infarction in 2000 with quadruple aorto-coronary by-pass and 11 bladder TURs since 1992 (AP: T1G2, follicular cystitis, TaG1, TaG2 and multiple T1G2 with MMC instillations), currently under follow-up, who came to the ED in July 2011 presenting with a picture of dystrophic sensation, suprapubic pain of weeks of evolution and left lumbar pain that has been progressively increasing over the last few weeks, with worsening at the present time. She also complains of urinary urgency. In the previous 15 days he had been treated with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for micturition syndrome with pathological urine systemic, compatible with urinary tract infection (UTI).
On arrival at the ED he presented with worsening renal function parameters (creatinine 1.65 mg/dl) with hyperkalaemia (K+ 6 IU/l), with no evidence of leukocytosis. Given the clinical and analytical findings, an urgent abdominal ultrasound was requested, which revealed the presence of a wrestling bladder with hypertrophy of the detrusor muscle and scarce repletion with bilateral grade III ureterohydronephrosis, without evidence of a clear obstructive cause. He was admitted to the Urology Department for urgent bilateral urinary diversion. During the procedure, cystoscopy revealed a bladder with very oedematous walls that prevented adequate visualisation of the ureteral meatus, preventing bilateral retrograde catheterisation. A few hours later, and after placing the bladder catheter while awaiting a new catheterisation through the percutaneous nephrostomies, radiological control revealed correction of the ureterohydronephrosis on the right side. Given the persistence of the left uropathy, it was decided to perform a left urinary diversion by means of percutaneous nephrostomy. In the immediate postoperative period he was admitted to the ICU for a clinical picture compatible with severe sepsis of urological origin, accompanied by hypotension, leukopenia and coagulopathy, with positive urine culture for BLEA-producing Escherichia coli.

Physical examination
On arrival at the hospital, he presented with a painful abdomen on palpation in the left hypochondrium, with voluntary defence. No signs of peritonism, with negative Murphy and Blumberg. Positive RHA.

Complementary tests
- Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen without contrast: grade III left ureterohydronephrosis with no distal obstructive cause identified. In the pelvic portion of the right ureter there is a change in calibre coinciding with an area of increased tortuosity of the ureter, with no proximal dilatation or apparent distal obstructive cause.
- Urine cytology: cystitis.
- Cystoscopy: decreased bladder capacity. Struggling bladder, trabeculated, wide-mouthed right ureteral meatus accessible with cystoscope, refluxing. No visualisation of the left ureteral meatus.
- Ureterocystography + anterograde pyelography: stenosis at the uretero-vesical junction causing grade III uretero-hydronephrosis with small passage of contrast into the bladder. Right vesicoureteral reflux.

Diagnosis
Microbladder secondary to multiple bladder TURs, leading to right vesicoureteral reflux.
Stenosis of the left uretero-vesical junction causing grade III ureterohydronephrosis.

Treatment
After evaluation of the case in a joint clinical session of the Department, it was decided to perform a laparoscopic augmentation enterocystoplasty by means of a single umbilical port access (LESS) in November 2011. Dissection of the anterior aspect of the bladder was performed, separating it from the anterior abdominal wall and thus gaining access to the Retzius space. Subsequently, the transumbilical access was enlarged to extract a segment of the ileum loop, which would be used for the enterocystoplasty. The intestinal transit is then reconstructed with mechanical suture (GIA + TEA). The segment of the ileum selected for bladder enlargement is destubulated using an electric scalpel, with subsequent transversal opening of the entire bladder dome, thus exposing the mucosa. Finally, continuous suturing of the intestinal loop to the bladder was performed using a continuous V- lock 2-0 suture. The total surgical time was 3.5 hours, with an estimated bleeding of about 200 ml and the need for intraoperative transfusion of a red blood cell concentrate, due to the patient's baseline anaemia on admission.

Evolution
The patient remained afebrile and haemodynamically stable during his stay on the ward. Diuresis was correct through left nephrostomy and bladder catheter. Abdominal drainage with a progressively decreasing debit, which was withdrawn on the ninth day, and he was discharged from hospital due to good evolution. She was readmitted after 8 days at home for acute pyelonephritis, which progressed favourably with intravenous antibiotic treatment. The bladder catheter was removed 30 days after surgery and a left nephrostomy was performed 3 months later. Four months later, the patient has had no new episodes of UTI, reporting occasional irritative symptoms that have now disappeared.
