Reason for consultation
Difficulty in swallowing.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests)
Anamnesis: the patient in our case is a 61 year old male with a personal history of being an ex-smoker of one packet of cigarettes a year. He came to our emergency department because he reported a sensation of choking and tightness in the throat that did not worsen with effort, as well as difficulty swallowing solids. According to our patient, the oppressive sensation lasted no more than two hours and self-limited spontaneously.

Physical examination: on arrival at the emergency department, the patient had a systolic blood pressure of 114 mmHg and a diastolic blood pressure of 86 mmHg. The heart rate was 75 beats per minute and the SaO2 was 96%. Our patient was conscious, oriented and cooperative, well hydrated and haemodynamically stable.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation was rhythmic and without murmurs with good ventilation and no alterations in the vesicular murmur.
The abdomen was soft and depressible, not painful on palpation, with no masses or megaliths and no signs of peritonism.
The lower limbs showed no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.

Complementary tests
As complementary tests it was decided to perform
Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 68 bpm, normal PR interval, narrow QRS, without acute repolarisation alterations.
Blood tests with haemogram, biochemistry and coagulation, which were anodine, except for LDH of 897.
PA and L chest X-ray: perihilar image in the right upper pulmonary lobe.

Family and community approach
The patient is a 61-year-old male patient, independent for basic and instrumental activities of daily living. He is single and lives with his father. Good family support. Low socio-cultural level. He is regularly followed up for digestive pathology at his health centre.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Infectious granuloma.
Benign lung neoplasm: hamartoma, lipoma or fibroma. Malignant lung neoplasm: primary or metastatic. Rheumatoid nodule.
Wegener's granolomatosis.

Action plan and evolution
The findings are discussed with the pneumology department and a joint decision is made to admit the patient for further study.

Once admitted to the ward, the following is performed:
-Chest CT scan: right hilar mass with multiple mediastinal adenopathies and 2 metastases at the level of the hepatic hilum, as well as bone metastases at the left costal and sacral level. According to this, it would correspond to stage IV (T4N3M1c). The lung mass exerts a mass effect with partial compression of the superior vena cava.
-Fibrobronchoscopy: Complete obstruction was observed at the level of the right upper lobe with a clot at its entrance which was not removed. Brushings and biopsies of the infiltrations and the carina of the right upper lobe were performed.

Evolution
With an anatomopathological result of right Hiliar Microcytic Carcinoma of 68x80x60 mm extended to the mediastinum, liver and bone level, discharge was decided after the clinical and analytical stability of the patient, and a new appointment was made after being informed of the decision of the Tumour Committee of the Hospital Infanta Elena.
