A 40-year-old man, with no past medical history of interest, healthy and a regular sports enthusiast, who came to the outpatient dermatology clinic for a couple of months with erythematous, scaly and very pruritic lesions on both groins, extending to the inner thighs and pubis. These lesions initially began as follicular papules with centrifugal growth and later evolved to form large plaques with raised edges and more intense colouring. They were initially treated with corticoids and seemed to improve, but after a few weeks they worsened and for this reason a sample of scales was taken from the patient for bacteriological and mycological culture, with the possibility of a bacterial or fungal cause in mind. The sample under study was sown on the usual media for bacteria, on Sabouraud agar with chloramphenicol and on Sabouraud agar with chloramphenicol and actidione.
After ten days of incubation, colonies of a filamentous fungus with the appearance of a dermatophyte grew. On microscopic examination, septate hyphae, chlamydoconidia, abundant racquet-shaped macroconidia in clusters, and no microconidia were observed.

The clinical picture presented by the patient, both from the description of the lesions and their evolution, appears to be dermatophytosis. The scales from the scraping of the lesions were cultured on media suitable for the growth of dermatophytes such as Sabouraud agar, Sabouraud agar with chloramphenicol +/- actidione, PDA (Potato Dextrose Agar), DTM (Dermatophyte Test Medium), etc., resulting in the growth of a filamentous fungus which was subsequently identified by microscopic examination with lactophenol blue or KOH.
The aetiological agent causing this dermatosis is the dermatophyte Epidermophyton floccosum, the main cause of tinea cruris, the dermatosis suffered by the patient in this case.

The ideal antifungal for dermatophytosis is terbinafine, a fungicide drug that binds strongly to keratin and fatty tissue and remains in high concentrations once treatment has ceased, so in this case, where there is an inflammatory component, 250 mg/day for 2-4 weeks would be appropriate.
