A 40-year-old man, with no previous history of interest, with no habitual treatment or toxic habits, who consulted for symptoms of arthromyalgia, diplopia and night sweats, with a weight loss of 8 kg in the last 4 weeks. He works as a stockbreeder and farmer.

Physical examination
Physical examination was unremarkable, with fever of 38.5oC one night only. There was a lesion on the left thigh compatible with a tick bite and paralysis of the right 6th cranial nerve for 72 hours prior to admission.

Complementary tests
A simple blood test, chest X-ray and non-contrast cranial CT scan were performed in the emergency department and showed no abnormalities.

Differential diagnosis
- Infectious process: CBC and serology (including lupus, HIV, brucella, borrelia, rickettsia, chlamydia and toxoplasma), blood cultures, urine cultures, stool cultures, mantoux, and lumbar puncture (biochemistry, bacterial cultures, fungi and mycobacteria, PCR herpes virus and serology, including tuberculosis). A transesophageal echocardiogram was also performed. The results were negative.
- Neuropathic process: negative electrophysiological study.
- Paraneoplastic process: tumour markers, proteinogram and body-CT scan with normal results except for small renal infarctions.
- Autoimmune process: ANA, antiDNA, C3, C4, HLA B27, HLA B51 and IG quantification were normal. CT angiography of the aorta was normal.
Cranial MRI with and without contrast was performed, where a thickening of the pituitary stalk was the only finding.

Evolution of the case
The patient's evolution was torpid, with pain that did not subside with analgesia and febrile syndrome. He was treated empirically with Doxycycline and steroids, and subsequently with Ceftriaxone and Ciprofloxacin, with no improvement in the clinical picture. A few days later, he presented with acute hepatitis and pancreatitis, together with severe thrombopenia (4300/mm3) and marked polyuria and thirst. Abdominal ultrasound was normal.
A bone biopsy of the iliac crest was performed, confirming the diagnosis: mature acute lymphoblastic leukaemia B, L3 (ALL). After a multidisciplinary assessment of the patient, primary digestive pathology was ruled out, with a diagnosis of infiltrative hepatitis and pancreatitis, as well as diabetes insipidus, paralysis of the VI pair and renal infarcts, secondary to the infiltration.
Intrathecal chemotherapy treatment was started with rapid and favourable evolution of the patient.
