A 47 year old woman, Italian nationality, on a tourist trip to Argentina, living with her travelling companion in a mobile home. They visited for 50 days the region known as Gran Chaco: Formosa (from 8 to 25 May), Chaco (29 May to 9 June) to enter the El Rey National Park, Salta, from 11 to 16 June. This is a transition region, between the tropical Andean rainforest (Yungas) and small areas of the highland chaco. They learned from the park ranger service of the risk of being bitten by ticks. On 21 June they arrived in the city of Tucumán, where in the evening the patient presented hyperthermia (40 °C), chills, headache, myalgia, anorexia and purpuric rash on upper and lower limbs. It rapidly worsened, adding polyarthralgias, cutaneous-mucosal pallor, acrocyanosis, vomiting, tachypnoea, confusional syndrome with delirium, hypoglycaemia (0.4 g/l), for which he was admitted to intensive care, with a diagnosis of severe community sepsis. Parenteral antibiotic treatment was administered: ceftriaxone 2 g every 12 hours, ampicillin 1 g every 4 hours and acyclovir 500 mg every 8 hours, and mechanical ventilation. On the sixth day he had a fatal evolution preceded by tonic-clonic convulsions, progressive hypothermia and shock. During hospitalisation, an ulcerative lesion was visualised, covered with an eschar, similar to tache noire 2. Her partner stated that she had been bitten, at least by a tick, in the El Rey National Park. 

Tests carried out: Studies for dengue (RT-PCR, non-structural antigen -NS1-, IgM Mac ELISA), chikungunya (real-time PCR), hantavirus (IgM Mac ELISA), thick drop for malaria, rk39 protein for visceral leishmaniasis, Chagas disease (ELISA and HAI), syphilis (VDRL), brucellosis (Huddleson, BPA and Rose Bengal), and antibodies for HIV/AIDS, hepatitis B and C were requested. All these studies were negative. Serial blood cultures and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) culture were negative (physical and chemical examination of CSF was normal).

Computed tomography (CT) of the brain: normal; CT of the chest: small bilateral pleural effusion, with no signs of condensation; CT of the abdomen and pelvis: significant splenomegaly, with no free fluid in the cavity. Pelvis without particularities.

Autopsy: splenic and hepatic tissue was processed with PCR technique for Rickettsia spp, based on the detection of the gltA5 gene, the result of which was positive. BLAST alignments showed that the analysed sequences had 99% (360/364 bp) homology with several R. rickettsii strains (matching GenBank codes CP006009.1, CP006010.1, JN375499.1, CP003305.1, CP000848.1), generalised petechial and purpuric exanthema and the aforementioned inoculation eschar were observed. Internally, there was mild hepato-splenomegaly, pulmonary haemorrhage, erosive and haemorrhagic gastritis, ascites, congestion and marked swelling of both kidneys. Microscopically, small and medium-sized vessels with variable endothelial damage and thrombosis in different stages were detected systemically, with little inflammatory response. The kidneys showed glomerular thrombotic microangiopathy and acute tubular necrosis, plus acute pulmonary oedema and portal and centrolobulillar necrosis, which made up the multiple organ failure.  
