A 14-year-old woman from Holland, although she had been living in Spain since she was 5 years old. No toxic habits or family, medical or surgical history of interest. She denies contact with rural areas and trips abroad (except to her hometown). She has cats and dogs at home. He does not follow any usual treatment.

She was initially admitted with a two-week history of fever of up to 39oC, asthenia, general malaise and low productive cough. Blood tests and chest X-ray were performed, and she was diagnosed with community-acquired right lower lobe pneumonia (RLLP), and empirical treatment with ceftriaxone and clarithromycin was started. Forty-eight hours after admission, the patient tested positive for influenza A PCR and treatment with oseltamivir was added. The patient's clinical evolution was unfavourable, requiring admission to the Intensive Care Unit with frank haemoptysis associated with severe anaemisation. Supportive measures were initiated with clinical improvement, and the patient was subsequently transferred to the Pneumology ward.

On the eighth day of admission, the patient continued to be febrile and began to experience vomiting, perioral and hand paraesthesia and weakness in the lower limbs. It was decided to perform a cranial CT scan, which revealed multiple cerebral LOEs, and the patient was transferred to the Infectious Diseases Department of our centre for further study.

Differential diagnosis
We are dealing with a patient with multiple cerebral LOEs associated with pulmonary condensation. Among the non-infectious causes, the possibility of tumoural causes should be ruled out. These include metastatic brain involvement secondary to a lung tumour, which is unlikely given the young age of the patient and the absence of exposure to pulmonary toxic agents, or primary cerebral lymphoma or glioblastoma multiforme, although in both cases the lesions are usually single or in smaller numbers. Infectious causes include those of fungal origin, such as histoplasmosis or aspergillosis, although these tend to occur more in immunocompromised patients, and those of parasitic origin, such as hydatidosis and neurocysticercosis, although in our case there is no epidemiology to support the diagnosis and they tend to be more larval.

Bacterial aetiology would include tuberculosis or listeriosis, although these tend to present more frequently in the form of meningitis or encephalitis and not as space-occupying lesions. Nocardiosis, although more frequent in immunosuppressed patients or associated with steroid treatment, usually manifests with cerebral involvement of pulmonary origin, so although it is not the most likely aetiology, it cannot be completely ruled out. Lastly, infections caused by pyogenic bacteria, which, depending on their origin, will lead us to think of a specific bacterial group. If we think of a possible abdominal origin we would have to take into account enterobacteria, if it is endovascular gram-positive, such as staphylococci and streptococci, and if it is pulmonary, as in our case, we would have to think mainly of pneumococcal and anaerobic infections.

Evolution
After transfer to our centre, an MRI of the skull was performed with the finding of multiple supratentorial lesions (approx. 20-25) in both cerebral cortico-subcortical hemispheres and in the deep white matter, the largest measuring 2.3 cm on the left front, all of them with ring wall enhancement and with a level inside, associated with significant bilateral perilesional vasogenic oedema, more evident on the left side, where it produced partial collapse of the left ventricle with a 3 mm deviation of the midline. An abdominal CT scan was performed, with no findings of interest, and a chest CT scan showed an alveolar infiltrate in the LID associated with moderate right pleural effusion with hydroaerial levels suggestive of empyema. The study was also completed with a transthoracic echocardiogram showing a possible patent foramen ovale and no vegetations.

The microbiological tests performed were: blood cultures, sputum culture with BAAR, urine culture, pleural fluid culture, antigenuria for pneumococcus and legionella, galactomannan and serology for viruses (HIV, HAV, HBV, HCV, HSV, EBV, CMV, influenza virus, parainfluenza, RSV, adenovirus, etc.), bacteria (syphilis, syphilis, syphilis), and bacteria (syphilis, syphilis, syphilis, syphilis). ...), bacteria (syphilis, Legionella, Bartonella, Coxiella, Brucella, Chlamydia ....), parasites (toxoplasma, taeniasis, hydatidosis...), all of which were negative. In view of these findings, the Neurosurgery Department was contacted and it was decided to perform a brain biopsy of one of the lesions to take microbiological samples, with negative results in the culture (auramine, PCR toxoplasma, PCR bacteria), as well as the pathological anatomy (histochemical techniques and molecular analysis for M. tuberculosis, T. gondii, and B. melitensis), suggesting pyogenic brain abscess as the most likely diagnosis without germ affiliation. During his stay at our centre, the antibiotic spectrum was extended by starting linezolid, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and metronidazole, completing eight weeks of treatment, with good clinical, respiratory, neurological and radiological evolution.

A control chest CT scan showed radiological improvement with respect to previous findings, with virtual disappearance of consolidation, together with the finding of multiple cysts in the apical segment of the right lower lobe communicating with the airway, suggestive of cystic adenomatoid malformation with possible superinfection and cystic-varicoid bronchiectasis with bronchovascular grouping in the medial basal segment of the LID. On discharge, she was referred to Cardiology, who ruled out permeable foramen ovale by transesophageal echocardiogram, and to Thoracic Surgery for surgical treatment of the pulmonary malformation.

Final diagnosis
Multiple pyogenic cerebral abscesses of haematogenous origin associated with pulmonary cystic adenomatoid cystic malformation and lobar pneumonia with no affiliation of the causative microorganism.
