47-year-old woman, moderate smoker, diagnosed in 1999 with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) without subsequent flares, vasculitis, dubious mitral endocarditis, mesangial-focal proliferative glomerulonephritis, and antiphospholipid syndrome with four miscarriages. Echocardiography in 2010 showed double mitral lesion with predominantly moderate insufficiency. She was admitted to another hospital for dyspnoea, with anaemia, bilateral infiltrates and dark sputum with suspected alveolar haemorrhage (AH). ANA and lupus anticoagulant positive, other immunological studies negative; elevated ESR and Cr 1.46mg/dl. Cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids were started with improvement in <72 hours with radiological resolution. Echocardiography showed moderate mitral stenosis, atrial dilatation and severe pulmonary hypertension. On discharge she persisted with some dyspnoea. She was readmitted three months later for respiratory worsening, fever and cough with expectoration, and a thoracic X-ray and tomography were performed, compatible with pulmonary oedema (confirmed by tomography), and she was referred to our hospital in case she required cardiac intervention. She was treated with prednisone, cyclophosphamide, Synthrom, losartan, pantoprazole, calcium carbonate/cholecalciferol.
On arrival: Hb 10.4g/dl; urea 189mg/dl; Cr 2.3mg/dl; CRP 249.1mg/l; PCT 1.07ng/dl; proBNP 3,307pg/ml; INR 4.77. Sputum culture, pneumococcal antigenuria, blood culture and urine culture were requested; empirical antibiotherapy with cefepime and levofloxacin was started. Laboratory tests showed ESR 124, biochemistry with normal immunoglobulins and complement, proteinogram with moderate inflammatory pattern; urinalysis with proteinuria; ANA, ANCA PR3 and MPO, ENA, dsDNA and antiMBG negative; anticardiolipin and antiB2GP both IgG+, IgM-. Cyclophosphamide was suspended and atovaquone was started. New echocardiography showed rheumatic mitral valve disease with moderate stenosis and mild insufficiency, mild-moderate pulmonary hypertension. After >72 hours with antibiotic therapy, he presented two febrile peaks, elevated CRP, persistent respiratory symptoms, hypoxaemia and radiography with bilateral infiltrates which, as he was also an immunosuppressed patient, we suspected Pneumocystis and started cotrimoxazole.
Fibrobronchoscopy was performed with culture samples (bacterial, mycological, Actinomyces) which were negative, pathological anatomy and PCR of P. jirovecii which was positive. Cotrimoxazole was maintained with clinical, analytical and radiological improvement.
