A 59-year-old woman, hypertensive, dyslipidaemic and a former smoker, with a personal history of pancytopenia secondary to dental infection eight months earlier, which resolved. She was admitted to Internal Medicine for fever and pancytopenia, the fever being explained by infection of the urinary tract by Proteus mirabilis, and on discharge she was prescribed ciprofloxacin and a bone marrow biopsy was performed on an outpatient basis to study pancytopenia.
On the sixth day after discharge, the patient came to the emergency department for skin rash and recurrence of fever (up to 39.3oC). The differential diagnosis of fever and rash was made, and after a week of broad-spectrum antibiotics and absence of microbiological isolation, infectious causes were ruled out and a diagnosis of pharmacological toxicoderma was made, and high-dose corticosteroid treatment was started with a good response. Bone marrow biopsy revealed non-necrotising epithelioid granulomas, dysplastic features and mutation of the SRSF2 gene (associated with myelodysplastic syndromes and less frequently with chronic myeloproliferative syndromes).
During admission, computed tomography (CT) was performed, showing lympho mediastinal lymphadenopathies, with no other alterations, making it necessary to rule out sarcoidosis, but also lymphoproliferative syndrome and tuberculosis infection. Of note was the elevation of angiotensin converting enzyme. The patient refused to undergo bronchoscopy to complete the study and was discharged. On an outpatient basis, Mycobacterium avium complex was isolated in blood cultures, so she started treatment with clarithromycin and ethambutol. Seven days later, the patient presented with cough, expectoration and fever, and a chest X-ray showed ground-glass opacity with diffuse and bilateral involvement. He was admitted and bronchoalveolar lavage was performed and PCR was positive for Pneumocystis jiroveci, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was prescribed. During this admission he also presented with influenza A virus infection treated with oseltamivir. After presenting a new episode of toxicoderma, which on this occasion was related to treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, treatment was replaced with atovaquone.
In view of two opportunistic infections, a differential diagnosis of the possible causes was made and on reviewing previous analyses, absolute monocytopenia had been observed for a year, so the GATA-2 gene was studied, which was found to be mutated, and she was diagnosed with monocytopenia syndrome and mycobacterial infections (MonoMAC syndrome).
