A 52-year-old woman, with no personal history of interest, was admitted from the emergency department for symptoms of three days' evolution consisting of asthenia and profuse sweating in the evening, with fever of up to 39.5°C together with a feeling of chills. No other data of interest except for arthralgias, myalgias and a semi-liquid stool without blood or pathological products in the hours prior to admission. He reports no foreign travel in the last year and occasional contact with animals.

Physical examination
On admission, temperature 38.8°C, BP 95/60 mmHg, HR 75 bpm. Conscious and oriented, good nutritional status. Hydrated. Pallor of mucous membranes. Head and neck within normal limits. Cardiopulmonary auscultation normal. Abdomen soft, depressible, not painful on palpation, no masses or megaliths, peristalsis present. Extremities without oedema, pulses preserved. There was an erythematous-nodular lesion on the dorsal side of the distal third of the left forearm and small nodular lesions on the right knee. No peripheral lymph nodes were palpable.

Complementary data
Haemoglobin 11.5 g/dL, haematocrit 34% (normal volumes). Leukocytes 4300 10ʌ3/μL (normal formula), platelets 127000 10ʌ3/μL. CBC at discharge: haemoglobin 11.1 g/dL with normal volumes. Reticulocytes 2.29%. Leukocytes 4780 10ʌ3/μL (normal formula), platelets 337000 10ʌ3/μL. Coagulation baseline within normal range. Biochemistry: glucose, urea, creatinine, ions, transaminases, bilirubin, cholesterol, folate, vitamin B12, amylase, lipase, alkaline phosphatase within normal values. LDH 218U/L, proteinogram normal. CRP 15.2, ferritin 212 ng/mL. TSH 3.98 mU/L, β2 microglobulin 1.8 mg/L normal. ANAs negative. Nephelometry for IgG, IgA, IgM, C3 and C4 within normal. Rheumatoid factor normal. Urine system and urine sediment: 2-5 leukocytes x field with few urothelial cells. Flow cytometry: normal cellularity, proportional megakaryocytes, occasional mast cells. Myeloid series deviated to the left, mild eosinophilia and monocytosis. Red series with normoblastic maturation. Mild hyperplasia of the phagocytic mononuclear system. No lymphocytosis or lymphoid accumulations, the marrow being reactive. Marrow biopsy: fragmented bone sample, with representation of the three haematopoietic series. There is no alteration in the reticulin network, haemosiderosis or fibrosis. ECG: normal. TTE: normal. Serial blood cultures: negative. Urine culture: negative, Ag for pneumococcus negative. Stool culture: negative. Quantiferon: positive 0.64UI/ml. FNA dermal lesion: negative for malignancy. Serology HBV, HCV, HIV, Borrelia, Brucella, Coxiella, EBV, Rickettsia, LUES and Mycoplasma negative. CMV IgM negative IgG positive. Abdominal ultrasound: retroperitoneal adenopathy and splenomegaly with focal lesions. Thoracic-abdominal CT with contrast: small mediastinal adenopathies smaller than 10mm, subpleural nodule in LID compatible with lipoma. Moderate hepatosplenomegaly with hypodense lesions in hepatic segments III-IV and VI-VII measuring 5mm-18mm in diameter. In the spleen, multiple hypodense lesions affecting the entire parenchyma were identified. Retroperitoneal adenopathies of 10mm in diameter in the left para-aortic region and in the gastrohepatic ligament. Small mesenteric and peripancreatic adenopathies. Rest normal. Serology by IFA for Bartonella henselae IgM positive and IgG positive with titres above 1/512. Evolution and comments: Patient with the described history who was admitted for subacute febrile symptoms, with images that initially raised suspicions of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and more specifically, given the findings in the spleen, of splenic lymphoma; both flow cytometry and iliac crest biopsy were negative. While she remained on symptomatic treatment and the studies were being completed, it was decided to extend the serology given her history of contact with animals and the lesions on her forearm that could suggest scratches; it was positive for B. henselae and treatment was started initially with ceftriaxone 2 g iv every 24 hours for a week, later reinforced with doxycycline 100 mg vo c/12 hours given the significant compromise of the patient's general condition. Satisfactory evolution was observed, with progressive remission of symptoms until complete recovery.
