Medical history: chronic bronchitis, a single hospital admission two years before the current one for respiratory failure secondary to non-condensing respiratory infection due to influenza A (H1N1) pmd09, possible brucellosis in childhood. Surgical history: operated on a year ago for ischiorectal abscess without complications. He is not currently receiving any treatment. Three months before the current episode he had received ciprofloxacin prescribed by his primary care doctor, with no cause recorded in his medical history. Toxic habits: smoker of 1 pack of cigarettes a day, occasional hashish user and drinker of 2-3 litres of beer a day. He lives in a rural area; he has not recently travelled outside his town or gone out to the countryside. Currently unemployed. Pets at home: a dog.

She came to the emergency department for general malaise and moderate asthenia accompanied by hyperthermia of 39-40oC of 3 days' evolution, nausea and a single vomit. He also began with holocranial headache and interscapular pain, followed by sweating and general malaise. In the anamnesis by apparatus, she reported no cough or expectoration, urinary symptoms or alterations in intestinal transit, no pruritus or choluria. In the last few months, there had been no weight loss. In the previous weeks, she had presented an open wound on the left ankle, which she could not relate to any circumstance; no dermal lesions have been visualised and she does not remember recent bites. She did not report any risky sexual relations.

Physical examination showed blood pressure of 105/67. Afebrile, in good general condition, oriented and cooperative. Eupneic with no oxygen intake. Well perfused and normal colour. Asthenic constitution. Rhythmic heart tones at 103 bpm and no audible murmurs. Bladder murmur preserved, without other respiratory sounds. Abdomen soft, without organomegaly or peritonism. No notable dermal lesions and no palpable adenopathies in superficial ganglion chains. Neurological examination: no nuchal rigidity, negative Kernig's and Brudzinsky's signs, conscious (Glasgow 15/15), normal cranial nerves, strength and sensitivity, both algesic and arthrokinetic, skin-plant reflexes are bilaterally flexor. No dysmetria or diadochokinesias. Normal gait without lateralisation or increase in the base of support. He names, understands and repeats. Speech is fluent and the rest of the higher functions are normal. While being treated in the emergency department, he had a seizure of 30 seconds' duration with tonic-clonic movements and decerebrate posture. The seizure ceased with clonazepam and during the seizure there was no sphincter relaxation. After the seizure, she presented a post-critical episode with central cyanosis that gradually improved with support measures and oxygen therapy.

A blood test was carried out in the emergency department, where the haemogram showed a platelet count of 40,000 with the rest of the series normal. Biochemistry showed elevated CRP 129.21 mg/l and procalcitonin 20 ng/ml. Renal function and ions were normal. Urinalysis showed low leukocytes and red blood cells, with negative nitrites. In the toxicity test, benzodiazepines and hashish were positive. In the imaging studies requested, no foci of consolidation, infiltrates or effusion were observed in the chest X-ray, and the abdominal X-ray was normal. The CT scan of the skull, requested due to the coma episode, showed an inflammatory appearance of the ethmoid and right maxillary sinuses, ruling out signs of established acute ischaemia and/or space-occupying lesions. A peripheral blood smear, requested urgently, showed neutrophils with increased granulation and a few cilia, as well as reactive lymphocytes. Following the results, a lumbar puncture was performed and samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were sent to the biochemistry and microbiology laboratories for culture of the usual microorganisms, mycobacteria, PCR for viruses and pneumococcal antigen. The CSF was cloudy with glucose 29.3 mg/dl, protein 130.8 mg/dl, 35 red blood cells/mm3, 1170 leukocytes/mm3 (66% mononuclear). At the same time, serology was performed to rule out HIV and zoonosis.

Differential diagnosis
A) In our case we are dealing with a patient who initially presented with non-specific clinical manifestations but with deterioration of general condition associated with headache and fever, later presenting with seizures. A lumbar puncture was performed due to a high suspicion of meningitis, obtaining CSF compatible with lymphocytic meningitis, and therefore the following etiological diagnoses are proposed.

a) Infections
* Bacterial meningitis
1- Listeria monocytogenes: causes meningoencephalitis in patients over 50 years of age, immunosuppressed due to corticosteroid/immunosuppressive treatment or the presence of comorbidities (liver cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus, chronic renal failure or active neoplasia).
2- Tuberculous meningitis: subacute-chronic onset with clinical manifestations of weakness, headache, low-grade fever and personality changes. This is followed by another phase with predominant neurological symptoms such as lethargy, confusion, involvement of cranial nerves. In the last phase, confusion leads to stupor, convulsions, hemiparesis, coma.
3- Decapitated bacterial meningitis: this clinical circumstance requires the use of antimicrobials prior to CSF analysis. The most frequent causes in our environment are Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis.
4- Neurosyphilis: Advanced stage of infection by Treponema pallidum and which clinically presents with headache, fever and stiff neck. If syphilitic gummas form, seizures are more likely to develop.

* Viral meningoencephalitis: Clinically they may present with altered level of consciousness, fever, seizures and neurological focality. In our environment we should rule out the presence of: HSV 1 and 2, Enterovirus, varicella zoster virus (VZV) and West Nile virus.

* Fungal meningitis: Opportunistic disease caused by Cryptococcus neoformans, which mainly affects immunocompromised patients and whose most frequent neurological manifestation is meningoencephalitis leading to the formation of cryptococcomas.

b) Non-infectious:
1- Temporal arteritis: This is the most frequent vasculitis, affecting large and medium-sized vessels in patients aged over 60-70 years. The neurological symptoms, consisting of headache and sometimes seizures, are associated with persistent fever and constitutional syndrome.
2- Primary cerebral lymphoma: This is a rare variant of extranodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The most frequently described symptoms are neurological deficits, personality alterations, headache with vomiting and seizures.
3- Other brain tumours: The most frequent brain tumour lesion is metastasis and among the primary tumours we find glioblastoma and meningioma. Clinically, they present with headache, convulsions, vomiting, syncope, behavioural alterations and neurological focality.
4- Pharmacological: Due to the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and cotrimoxazole, among others.
5- Sarcoidosis: Cause of aseptic meningitis due to granulomatous inflammation that follows a perivascular distribution affecting the CNS and may produce focal or generalised seizures depending on the area affected.

B) Considering the circumstances surrounding our patient, we previously mentioned that he lives in a rural area and has a dog as a pet, so we would include the following zoonoses in the differential diagnosis:
1- Capnocytophaga spp: can present as fulminant sepsis or lymphocytic meningitis in immunocompromised patients. Domestic animals such as dogs and cats act as a reservoir. 
2- Q fever: caused by Coxiella burnetii. Unusually, it may present with neurological symptoms; it is the most frequent zoonosis in our environment.
3- Lyme disease: caused by Borrelia burgdorferi which, characteristically, presents with erythema migrans after tick bite. It can cause lymphocytic meningitis with cerebellar and cranial nerve involvement (mainly facial nerve).

Evolution
In view of the clinical findings and the results of the complementary tests, pending completion of the microbiological studies, the patient was transferred to the Infectious Diseases ward. Given the characteristics of the CSF, the acute/subacute presentation of the symptoms and the occupation of the paranasal sinuses in the skull CT scan, empirical treatment was started with Ceftriaxone 2 g/12 hours and Ampicillin 2g/4 hours (listeriosis was initially suspected). Subsequently, Microbiology reported the presence of abundant mononuclear leukocytes in the gram stain, pending culture results for usual pathogenic microorganisms. During the following days, the patient improved clinically, relieving his headache with first-step analgesics and was afebrile from the first day of hospitalisation. There were no new episodes of coma. Analytically, the patient's inflammatory parameters improved with a decrease in CRP, which at discharge was 3.52 mg/l, although he persisted with leukocytosis, which was attributed to corticoid treatment. Complementary tests were completed and it was observed that PCR for TB and viruses (enterovirus, HSV 1, 2 and VZV) and pneumococcal antigen in CSF were negative. Serologies for Q fever (Ig M C. burnetti), Leptospira spp. and Bartonella spp. were negative. Blood cultures drawn in the ED were also negative. CSF samples stained on chocolate agar and blood agar were negative at 72 hours. Samples incubated in liquid medium (thioglycollate and BHI broths) at five days showed growth of Capnocytophaga canimorsus without being able to recover viable microorganisms for antibiogram. Based on what was described in the literature and the clinical-analytical improvement, sequential treatment was continued with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 875/125 mg every 8 hours orally. Other complementary tests were requested, notably an EEG, which showed excessive emotional tension without paroxysmal activity or other anomalies; and a brain MRI, which showed slight atrophy of the cerebellar vermis. MRI of the patient's brain: slight atrophy of the cerebellar vermis. After eleven days of hospitalisation, the patient was discharged as he was asymptomatic, continuing with the established treatment for 14 days. He was reviewed in the Outpatient Infectious Diseases Department eleven days later, the patient remained asymptomatic and was discharged definitively. No new hospital admissions or emergency room visits have been recorded since the referral. Given that the patient had a history of open wounds, and there is a history of contact with dogs, this could well have been the entry point for the microorganism, and he also had excessive alcohol consumption as an added risk factor for infection by Capnocytophaga canimorsus.

Final diagnosis
Capnocytophaga canimorsus meningitis in a patient with active alcoholism.
