This is a male newborn with a perinatal history of euthecological delivery, gestational age 40 weeks, Apgar 9/9 stitches, Apgar 9/9 stitches. 2 weeks, Apgar 9/9 points and a weight of 3640 grams, who was discharged from the puerperium service at 72 hours of life and at 12 days of age is received in the Neonatology service, referred from the health area of Sandino for presenting fever of 39oC, somnolence, irritability, signs of respiratory difficulty, pallor, distal cyanosis, with a toxic-infectious aspect, tachycardia and signs of tissue hypoperfusion.

Physical examination also revealed an increase in volume of the right breast accompanied by flushing, warmth and pain on palpation; this increase in volume extended towards the posterior region of the thorax. The formation of haemorrhagic bullae, which converge in skin crepitus that rapidly progresses to a purplish-blue colouring in the form of patches, is striking.

Laboratory tests showed: haemoglobin: 12.6 mg/dl, leucocytes 13,500/mm3, PMN 48% with presence of toxic granulations in the periphery and Oski index of 0.25, platelets 100. 000/mm3, blood gas with hypochloremic metabolic acidosis with correction criteria; CSF cytochemistry normal, glycaemia 3.6 mmol/l, chest X-ray showed diffuse reticulogranular images with outline of air bronchogram.

The patient was supported on transfer to the intensive care unit with parenteral hydration according to the baby's needs, volume replacement (isotonic saline solution), inotropics (dopamine, dobutrex) and started with broad spectrum antimicrobial therapy, 3rd generation cephalosporin (cefotaxime) at 100 mg/kg/day in combination with vancomycin.

Given the rapid evolution of the clinical picture, as well as its aggressiveness, multidisciplinary consultation with Paediatric Surgery and Caumatology was requested and it was decided to perform immediate and aggressive surgical treatment, which consisted of resection with extensive and complete debridement of all affected tissues, as well as exploration with resection of necrotic tissues, placing drains in purulent collections and taking samples of secretions and blood for microbiological studies; This tissue resection was carried out without aesthetic considerations, trying to preserve the patient's life, based on the criterion that these procedures are the key to survival in these newborns.

The clinical evolution in the operating room was evaluated jointly by the Neonatology, Surgery and Caumatology services and the conduct to be followed was based on the management of nutrition, infection control, signs of shock and ventilatory mechanics, it being necessary to take him to the operating room on several occasions to evaluate new debridements over a period of 24-36 hours until no infected or necrotic tissues were observed that could affect the evolution and prognosis of this neonate.

The characteristics of the wound and the deep bed were evaluated daily by the medical staff in order to determine the appropriate time to perform a complete solution of the process. Streptococcus pyogenes was isolated in the blood culture and coagulase-positive staphylococcus in the purulent secretions, so changes in therapy were made by replacing cefotaxime with meronem at a dose of 20mg/kg/dose and vancomycin coverage was maintained, achieving control of the septic process. At one month of age, it was decided to perform a homologous graft (skin taken from the mother). He evolved favourably with a successful outcome as if it had been an autologous skin graft.

He was discharged after a 3-month stay in the neonatal medical intensive care unit (NICU) with a complete recovery and no evidence of organ damage.
