We present the case of a 73-year-old male patient with AP of high-grade stage 1 bladder carcinoma treated with intravesical instillations of bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG). The patient had received the last dose 2 weeks prior to admission. He had presented fever and chills for 4 days and was treated empirically with ciprofloxacin without improvement. The patient had a temperature of 38.2oC, BP 132/78 mmHg, HR68, baseline spO2 97%. Physical examination showed slight positive right renal percussion fist percussion with no other relevant findings. Laboratory tests showed a slight leukocytosis (13800 leukocytes) with neutrophilia of 81%. He had mild normochromic normochromic anaemia, creatinine 1.3 mg/dl, LDH 450U/l, CRP 10 and other biochemical parameters were normal. Urinalysis revealed slight leukocyturia with negative nitrites and slight microscopic haematuria. Urine and blood cultures were negative. Chest X-ray showed no parenchymal abnormalities. Empirical treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid was started and the patient maintained fever peaks. After 5 days, blood and urine tests were repeated and the CRP remained elevated, but leukocytes were normal. Microscopic haematuria persisted in the urine with disappearance of leucocyturia. Blood and urine cultures were again negative. Renal ultrasound showed kidneys with globose parenchyma with no evidence of lithiasis, hydronephrosis or space-occupying lesions. In view of these findings, an abdominopelvic CT scan was performed, which revealed multiple hypodense areas in the right kidney of dubious origin (infectious, ischaemic, neoplastic), and the radiologist recommended an MRI scan to complete the study. The MRI of the abdomen (Figure 1) shows a globose right kidney with oedema involving the perirenal fat and Gerota's fascia, with multiple areas of heterogeneous enhancement of the renal parenchyma, with diffusion restriction, aspects that correspond to multiple areas of pyelonephritis. Given these findings, treatment was started with piperacillin/tazobactam at a dose of 4.5 g every 8 hours and a new urine analysis was requested with Ziehlg-Neelsen staining, Löwensteing-Jensen culture and conventional culture, which were again negative. On the 5th day of treatment and due to the lack of clinical and analytical response, blood and urine samples were sent to the laboratory of the Ricardo Jorge Institute in Lisbon to perform the in-house PCR technique. The DNA of M.tuberculosis bovis by PCR was positive in blood and urine. Treatment was started with isoniazid (300mg per day), rifampicin (600mg per day), pyrazinamide (1200mg per day) and streptomycin (1 day). On the 5th day the fever disappeared and after 3 weeks the CRP normalised. One month later the patient is asymptomatic and the pathological images have disappeared in the MRI examination.

Differential Diagnosis
In our case, the differential diagnosis was posed with a metastatic neoplastic process secondary to his underlying disease, a renal infarction and an infectious process secondary to treatment.
