A 37-year-old Moroccan man with no previous history. He came to the emergency department with fever of 38.5oC, weakness, myalgias and watery diarrhoea with 5-6 stools a day, without blood, for a week. He was treated with symptomatic treatment, without antibiotics. Two days later, after the diarrhoea had subsided, he consulted for persistent fever with marked asthenia. Examination revealed only pain on palpation in the right hypochondrium, with doubtful Murphy. Laboratory tests: total bilirubin 1 to 2.17 mg/dL (direct 0.89, indirect 1.28), GOT 50->70 mu/ml, GPT 60->109 mU/ml, CRP 143->238->300 mg/dL; 9660 leukocytes with neutrophilia. Renal function, ions, haemoglobin, platelets and coagulation normal. Systematic with two protein crossmatches and urobilinogen. Abdominal ultrasound: "findings suggestive of acute cholecystitis, without other alterations". General surgery indicated observation and re-evaluation, reluctant to perform surgery due to the doubtful clinical-radiological correlation. Given the lack of improvement and the worsening analytical findings, cholecystectomy was finally performed, finding on macroscopic examination a normal gallbladder with no signs of acute cholecystitis. On the ward he presented with fever for 5 days despite treatment with Amoxicillin-Clavulanic acid, with no haemodynamic deterioration or any signs of focal disease. Blood cultures, urine culture, biliary culture and toxins for Clostridium difficile were negative. Consultation with Internal Medicine, which requested a chest X-ray (normal), IGRA test (negative) and serology, with the following results: IgG positive and IgM negative for CMV and EBV; negative for lupus, HIV, HBV, HCV, Brucella, Rickettssia; IgM and IgG positive for Coxiella burnetti. An abdominal CT scan was requested but the patient was discharged prior to its performance, with no subsequent follow-up. Finally, the pathological anatomy report was received: "Mild chronic cholecystitis. Bilio-lithiasic material adhering to mucosa". Perihepatic inflammation can generate confusing sonographic signs such as wall thickening, with positive sonographic Murphy, which in our case was refuted by macroscopic and then anatomopathological examination. However, although extremely unusual, cases of Q fever with acute alliasic cholecystitis have been described, with or without overlapping with the typical forms with pneumonia, hepatitis or pseudo-flu-like febrile symptoms. As in liver involvement, granuloma formation with central vacuoles and fibrin rings is characteristic, and it is possible to isolate the bacteria in the surgical specimen.
