A 40 year old man who comes to the Drug Dependency Centre because he is using "15 to 30 joints/day", which he wants to stop due to the negative influence it can have on his daughters.

Personal background
Medical: 5 tympanoplasty operations, follow-up by GP for insomnia and headaches "since always". Enuresis until the age of 13-14. Toxicological: refers to the start of cannabis use at 16 years of age in relation to pressure from his group of friends and his difficulty in social relations. Since then he has been using without periods of abstinence. The dose has always been higher than 15 joints/day. He does not use and has not used other intoxicants.

Family history
Father operated for gastric ulcer; mother with multiple allergies with asthmatic crises and lifelong dermatological symptoms; healthy, independent sister. Wife since the age of 21, healthy, non-consumer, two daughters aged 7 and 2.

Biographical data of interest
Separation from parents 11 years ago, since then no relationship with father; describes mother as very demanding, disqualifying, very destructive and controlling; however his wife has always supported him "if it wasn't for her I wouldn't be alive". He describes himself as a very obsessive person: he dresses in the same order, needs to repeat phrases before leaving the house, has everything tidy and controlled, very demanding of himself and others. He began a career as an industrial engineer, which he abandoned, and then moved on to telecommunications, which he also abandoned, setting up his own very successful computer company.  History of the illness He reports having tried to quit several times without success, as he becomes very anxious, irritable, moody and unable to sleep. He believes that the joints now help him with the discomfort he feels, as for the last 7 years, he has started to feel low in mood, increasingly apathetic, not wanting to do anything or work. He has abandoned all his social relations and now only leaves the house when he goes out with his wife or daughters, he has also given up his hobbies as he is no longer attracted to them or entertained by them. Little by little he has lost the company that was his by abandoning it and has gone bankrupt, even losing his own house. His wife is starting to work outside the home and he is taking over the housework, but everything is very hard work for him "it is a big sacrifice"; he cannot concentrate and all day long he is thinking about problems, lately he thinks a lot about death and has "felt like getting out of the way, but I am a coward", he feels very guilty about the whole situation but he does not know what to do about it. His mood is getting worse and he is very scared.

Evolution
Due to the importance of the symptoms and their long evolution, he is treated with an antidepressant and a hypnotic. The patient continues to use and is in the same state of mind. After the second month, he achieved abstinence and 15 days after achieving it, his mood began to improve, he began to be active and to consider his future, starting to work and withdrawing the medication himself after a month; the improvement has continued until the present day, maintaining abstinence and with no reappearance of the depressive symptoms.

Diagnostic judgement
The possibility of the patient presenting a depressive disorder comorbid with substance use, in the strictest sense of the term (i.e. the appearance of two disorders of different aetiology in the same patient) and a substance-induced mood disorder should be assessed; but the ineffectiveness of the antidepressant while continuing to use cannabis, the improvement in mood when abstinence is achieved and the maintenance of his affective state despite having stopped the medication early, leads to a cannabis-induced mood disorder despite this not being a very orthodox diagnosis on axis I, in a subject with obsessive personality traits.
