A 65-year-old male patient, ex-smoker with a history of hypercholesterolemia, upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to pyloric ulcer, hyperuricaemia, anticoagulated atrial fibrillation and underwent valve replacement with metal aortic and mitral prostheses 3 months ago. He came to the emergency department of our hospital with a history of fever up to 39oC accompanied by chills (especially at night), general malaise, confusion and vomiting without pathological products. In the previous days he had no associated respiratory, micturition or gastrointestinal symptoms.

On physical examination, the patient was in fair general condition, conscious, disoriented in time and person, but not in space. Blood pressure was 135/70 mmHg and heart rate 87 bpm. Afebrile. On cardiac auscultation he had slightly tachycardic arrhythmic tones with metallic clicks. Pulmonary auscultation showed preserved vesicular murmur with no additional sounds. The neurological examination revealed a stiff neck and positive meningeal signs (Kerning and Bruzinsky); strength and sensibility were preserved in the upper and lower limbs.

With clinical suspicion of meningitis, a complete blood test was performed with haemoglobin 10.3 mg/dl, 6340 x103 leukocytes (4920 x 103 neutrophils), 102,000 x103 platelets, urea 45mg/dl, creatinine 1.6 mg/dl, C-reactive protein (CRP) 221.7 mg/l and procalcitonin 1. 17 ng/ml; cranial CT scan revealed no abnormalities, and lumbar puncture, whose cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis showed a white blood cell count of 1810/mm3 (95% neutrophils and 15% lymphocytes), protein 612.5 mg/dl and glucose 17.2 mg/dl.

Differential diagnosis
This was a case of acute community-acquired meningitis, the main "guiding data" available being neutrophilic pleocytosis, hypoglycaemia and hyperproteinaemia. The diagnosis of acute community-acquired meningitis (1) is challenging in older adults because of the variable clinical presentation and associated comorbidity. The main causes of acute community-acquired meningitis are:
 
 1. infectious
 - Bacterial (characterised by hypoglycaemia, hyperproteinaemia and neutrophilic pleocytosis) mainly Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis or Listeria monocytogenes. Early stages of meningitis due to Brucella spp, Lupus or Leptospiras spp.
 - Viral, mainly related to enteroviruses, arboviruses, mumps, herpes simplex virus, varicella-zoster virus, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus and HIV.
 - Mycobacteria.
 - Fungi, amoebae.

2. Lymphoma of the central nervous system or meningeal carcinomatosis.

3. Others: parameningeal infectious foci (cerebral empyema), cerebral aneurysm, chemical meningitis, early stages of Mollaret's meningitis, acute haemorrhagic encephalitis, multiple sclerosis, endocarditis.

4. Unknown cause. The imaging technique performed (cranial CT scan) showed no evidence of bleeding, nor focal lesions at parenchymal or meningeal level, making meningeal carcinomatosis, central nervous system lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, cerebral aneurysm or epidural empyema unlikely.

On the other hand, the CSF biochemical analysis was compatible with bacterial meningitis: cloudy fluid with predominantly neutrophilic pleocytosis (1810 leukocytes/mm3 with 95% neutrophils), hyperproteinorrakia (proteins above 500 mg/dl) and hypoglycorrhachia (glucose below 45 mg/dl). Therefore, the main aetiology to be ruled out was infectious with bacterial characteristics.

Evolution
On admission, given the high clinical suspicion, empirical treatment was started for bacterial meningitis in patients over 50 years of age, with dexamethasone 10mg every 24h, ceftriaxone 2g every 12h, vancomycin 1g every 12h and ampicillin 2g every 4h intravenously. Prior to the start of antibiotic treatment, samples were taken for culture and Streptococcus pneumoniae antigen detection in CSF, which were negative (both culture and antigen), direct Gram staining was performed, which revealed gram-positive cells in the form of cocci, in short chains and even small groups; and blood cultures were taken, which were positive for Streptococcus equi subspecies ruminatorum. Species identification was carried out directly from the blood culture using mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF).

After obtaining a positive blood culture (2 out of 4 bottles), antibiotherapy was changed to intravenous benzylpenicillin (42 million units/day) for 14 days and subsequently changed to intravenous ceftriaxone 2g/24h for 7 more days, completing 21 days of antibiotherapy. Blood cultures were negative after 7 days of antibiotic treatment.

Given the bacteraemia and the recent heart valve replacement, endocarditis was ruled out with transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography. There was no hypogammaglobulinaemia and no evidence of immunosuppression. Streptococcus equi is clearly related to contact with animals. In this regard, the patient was re-interrogated and reported having attended, two days before the onset of symptoms, a pilgrimage for a local festival, where he had direct contact with a large number of horses. The evolution was favourable with disappearance of fever and other symptoms, as well as normalisation of acute phase reactants.

Final diagnosis
Community bacteremic bacterial meningitis due to Streptococcus equi subsp. ruminatorum.
