A 51-year-old man, from Isla Mayor, smoker of 20 packets/year, employed in a fish farm, fond of breeding cockerels and collecting crabs.
He came to the emergency department with a 2-day history of asthenia, hyporexia, generalised arthromyalgia, predominantly in the lower limbs, severe retroorbital headache and 8-10 vomiting episodes per day that limited his intake. She did not present fever, diarrhoea, abdominal pain or visual alterations.
Physical examination showed no notable alterations except for conjunctival injection. Laboratory tests showed creatinine of 2.64 mg/dl, leukocytosis of 13740 with neutrophilia (83%), platelets of 50000 and GGT of 168 UI/l.
The characteristics of the clinical picture so far point more towards an infectious aetiology: malaria, dengue and yellow fever were ruled out due to the absence of foreign travel; infection by rickettsia, coxiella, yersinia, HIV, EBV or hepatotropic viruses, among others, could not be ruled out for the moment. Serology was requested for these entities and it was decided to admit the patient.
An ultrasound scan of the abdomen and a chest X-ray were performed, in which no relevant findings were observed.
Empirical antibiotic therapy was started with ceftriaxone 1g IV/24h and the patient's evolution was monitored. After 5 days of treatment, the patient evolved favourably, with symptoms disappearing and the previously altered analytical values were corrected, with creatinine of 0.58, 11720 leukocytes and 170000 platelets. Given the evident improvement, it was decided to discharge the patient home, continuing empirical antibiotherapy with cefixime 400 mg every 24 hours until completing the 7 days of treatment.
After a week, the patient, now asymptomatic, received serology results that were positive for leptospira.
About 10% of leptospirosis cases present clinically as Weil's syndrome: jaundice, renal failure and haemorrhagic diathesis; 90% usually present with fever, headache, myalgia and, characteristically, conjunctival congestion.
The diagnosis of leptospirosis is based on clinical findings in an appropriate epidemiological context. There is no possibility of direct culture and serological diagnosis is very difficult, requiring serology on day +7 of symptom onset. Clinical suspicion in a compatible epidemiological setting should be suspected and empirical treatment initiated.
