Anamnesis
We present the case of a 40-year-old female patient who came to the dermatology clinic for painful lesions on the first toe of the right foot, which had been inflamed on several occasions, for 2 months. Her personal history of interest included systemic lupus erythematosus and iron deficiency anaemia. He had previously received topical and oral treatment with several courses of antibiotics, including Cloxacillin and Levofloxacin, for less than two weeks, with practically no improvement.
She had not presented fever or dysthermic sensation since the onset of the symptoms, and denied any other symptoms of interest. The patient reported no similar previous episodes and related her symptoms to a trauma with an iron during her stay at a water park.

Physical examination
The patient was in good general condition, afebrile and haemodynamically stable.
Physical examination revealed small erythematous-violaceous papules on the upper and lower surface of the first toe of the right foot, one of which was larger and drained purulent material on puncture. There were no lesions on other toes or on the contralateral foot, and no nail involvement.

Complementary examinations
In the mycological study, the direct examination was negative and in the culture 5 colonies of Candida lusitaniae were isolated, with no clinical relevance.
Microbiological culture of the pus swab was negative.
A skin biopsy of the lesion was performed for histological and microbiological study.
Histopathology showed discrete hyperplasia in the epidermis accompanied by hyperkeratosis and parakeratosis, with occasional pustules in the horny layer. In the superficial dermis, a granulomatous inflammatory infiltrate was identified with multinucleated giant cells occasionally forming granulomas, with isolated foci of suppurative necrosis.
Microbiological culture of the biopsy in liquid medium (at 37oC) was negative after 45 days. Two colony-forming units (CFU) of a photochromogenic atypical mycobacterium were isolated from the solid medium culture (coletus) at room temperature. Subsequently, a chromogenic yellow colony was subjected to molecular genetic analysis using the GenoType Mycobacterium method, which includes 27 different mycobacterial species. The procedure is divided into three steps: isolation of DNA from the culture, amplification with biotin-labelled primers (not including thermostable DNA polymerase) and reverse hybridisation. The system is based on the amplification of a specific gene region with subsequent hybridisation of the amplification product to the different probes arranged on a nitrocellulose strip. A template ensures simple and quick interpretation of the banding scheme obtained. According to this scheme, in our case, the non-tuberculous mycobacterium (NTM) Mycobacterium marinum was isolated.
Obtaining a sample suitable for culture makes it easier to isolate the germ, as the purulent material contains the highest concentration of the germ. On the other hand, the temperature of the culture is also fundamental, as Mycobacterium marinum has an optimal growth temperature between 30 and 33oC.
The patient abandoned treatment 18 days after starting treatment due to diarrhoea secondary to antibiotics, so a probiotic was added and the regimen was changed to a capsule of Doxycycline 100 mg every 24 hours for a minimum of 4 months once the diagnosis was confirmed.
Conventional drug susceptibility testing is not recommended for most non-tuberculous mycobacteria, except in certain species or in the event of treatment failure. Such tests are not recommended in this species, which is normally sensitive to clarithromycin, rifampicin, ethambutol, tetracyclines, sulphonamides and co-trimoxazole. Some isolates are resistant to ciprofloxacin, and monotherapy with fluoroquinolones may facilitate the development of resistance, so it is not advisable to use these drugs in monotherapy in initial treatment.


Evolution
After a month and a half with probiotics and Doxycycline 100 mg every 24 hours with good tolerance, the lesions had markedly returned, presenting at that time flat violaceous lesions of residual appearance, with no evidence of pustules, but some myelic crusting. Treatment of this type of infection should be maintained for a minimum of four months.

Diagnosis
Mycobacterium marinum infection or pool granuloma.

Treatment
Before the culture result is available and given the high diagnostic suspicion, treatment is started with one tablet of Doxycycline 100 mg every 12 hours.
