A 35-year-old man was admitted for diplopia, headache, fever, vomiting and weakness in the lower limbs since 2 days previously. He referred catarrhal symptoms the previous week. He had a history of smoking and occasional cocaine use. Examination revealed reddish para-sternal skin lesions without petechiae, bradypsychia, binocular diplopia and paresis in the lower limbs, without meningeal signs or sensory alterations.
Complementary tests including CBC, urine toxicology, chest X-ray and cranial CT scan were normal. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed clear fluid, glucose 59 mg/dl, protein 88 mg/dl and leukocytes 169/mm3 (>95% lymphocytes+monocytes), ADA 11.2, red blood cells 0. He was admitted with a diagnosis of lymphocytic meningitis and treatment was started with ceftriaxone, acyclovir, ampicillin and dexamethasone. On the ward, the study was extended with blood cultures, plasma and CSF serology for different parasites, viruses and mycobacteria, all negative, except for a first Elisa for HIV, weakly positive, which was confirmed with a strong positive in a second test a few days later, with a positive Western-Blot and HIV-RNA in CSF of 396,786 copies/ml. On questioning, the patient reported risky sexual relations and two episodes of herpes zoster.
In the following days he presented neurological worsening with paraparesis, sensory alterations (hypoaesthesia in the lower extremities, abdominal dysaesthesia, facial hypoaesthesia) and patellar arreflexia, with an electromyogram showing acute polyradiculoneuritis of proximal predominance, suggestive of a variant of Guillain-Barré Syndrome. Progressively, the patient presented with a fluctuating level of consciousness with disorientation and agitation, so a cranial CT and MRI scan and lumbar puncture were performed, with normal results, and an electroencephalogram, with a pattern compatible with diffuse encephalopathy. Shock treatment was started with zidovudine, lamivudine, raltegravir and darunavir/ritonavir, the latter drug being discontinued after a few weeks. The patient showed progressive improvement, with no neurological sequelae except for a slightly paretic gait. The final diagnosis was meningoencephalitis and polyradiculopathy associated with primary HIV infection.
