A 48-year-old woman reported progressive tiredness over months of evolution, skin pallor and constant dry cough. After consulting her primary care doctor, she was referred to the Internal Medicine department where she was referred for further investigation. There was no history of interest except for the implantation of a permanent pacemaker in 1997 for congenital atrioventricular block (single-chamber VDD).

In relation to this device, in 2008 he presented with a first episode of local infection with extrusion of the generator, isolating Staphylococcus epidermidis, so the system was removed by percutaneous traction (TPC) and a new device was implanted via the right subclavian artery (bicameral VDD). During this extraction, a fragment of the cable was retained in the right ventricle (tip), leaving a metallic thread that reached the left subclavian artery. Subsequently, in 2014, he developed a new local infection in the generator bag, this time isolating Corynebacterium amycolatum in puncture and aspiration of purulent fluid present at this level. After screening for associated endocarditis (negative blood cultures and transesophageal echocardiography), the system underwent a new CPT. During this procedure, the atrial lead was removed, but the right ventricular free wall was torn when the ventricular lead was pulled, resulting in pericardial tamponade and haemodynamic shock. The condition was resolved by conservative measures (volume support), without the need for open cardiac surgery, but with abandonment of the ventricular lead, which was cut at the level of its entry into the right subclavian artery with implantation of a new bicameral pacing device via the femoral artery. Chest X-ray: all the systems retained prior to surgery can be seen, as well as the functioning femoral insertion pacemaker.
Antimicrobial treatment with IV teicoplanin is indicated for two weeks post-extraction and follow-up (periodic serial blood cultures) for 12 months (negative).
Since then, asymptomatic and uneventful until the onset of the asthenia and cough reported in mid-2016, for which a study was initiated, revealing megaloblastic anaemia with normal folic acid and vitamin B 12, deterioration of renal function (with elevated creatinine, proteinuria and haematuria) and a monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance with bone marrow study (aspirate and subsequent biopsy) with no data suggestive of myeloma. Due to the patient's history, it was decided to perform transthoracic echocardiography, which showed no vegetations in the functioning or retained leads, nor lesions at the valvular level. Likewise, the blood cultures taken were initially negative.
The patient continued to worsen, with persistent cough and developed frank hepatomegaly (8 cm below the costal arch), ascites and malleolar oedema. In view of these findings, the case was referred to Infectious Diseases and the patient was admitted. Blood tests on admission showed blood glucose and ions in range, impaired renal function with creatinine of 1.53 mg/dl, C-reactive protein of 39 mg/L, proteinuria of 1.5 g/24 h and haematuria. The haemogram showed leucopenia (3,400/mm3), anaemia with haemoglobin 6.8 g/dl (MCV: 112 fl) and 60,000 platelets.


Differential diagnosis
Initially, a study of megaloblastic anaemia was considered due to the asthenia and pallor of months of evolution with screening for possible haematological disease such as multiple myeloma or amyloidosis that could also justify the renal involvement; without considering infection of the electro-stimulation system as a clear diagnostic possibility, due to the absence of fever and cardiac semiology, and the negativity of the first blood cultures taken, as well as a non-diagnostic transthoracic echocardiographic study. Regarding the deterioration of the patient's renal function with haematuria and proteinuria, we can consider various diagnostic options such as mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis secondary to systemic infection or a possible parenchymal infiltration by amyloidosis in the context of chronic infection of the system (if we assume persistence of the same since the last manipulation of the system two years earlier). Amyloidosis, caused by extracellular deposition of fibrillar protein material, can manifest locally or systemically and can be primary or secondary to a chronic process (inflammatory or infectious). In systemic amyloidosis, the kidney is affected in up to 80-90% of cases depending on the series, significantly worsening the patient's prognosis1. 1 Hence, despite its infrequency, it should be included in the differential diagnosis of progressive renal failure, especially when there is evidence of intense proteinuria, as in our case. We could also explain other symptoms presented by the patient such as asthenia, ascites, anaemia, arthralgias... due to the deposition of amyloid in other tissues. Another diagnosis to consider was that of mesangio-capillary glomerulonephritis secondary to systemic infection, or also the possibility of a reno-pulmonary syndrome, such as anti-glomerular basement membrane antibody disease (classically, Goodpasture's disease), or other diseases secondary to tissue deposits such as systemic lupus erythematosus (more likely given the patient's epidemiological characteristics), Schölein-Henoch purpura, essential mixed cryoglublinaemia or other small vessel vasculitis and rapidly progressive immune-mediated glomerulonephritis. All these conditions could have been diagnosed by determination of the antibodies causing pulmonary and renal involvement and/or a renal biopsy, which was originally scheduled. However, taking into account the patient's personal history, we preferred to focus on the search for a possible recurrence of the infection of the implanted electrostimulation system that caused a probable glomerulonephritis secondary to this infectious condition and pulmonary symptoms secondary to the presence of septic embolisms from the right heart cavities. In our case, we had a previous echocardiography without vegetations and negative blood cultures. However, the existence of aetiological agents causing infective endocarditis with negative blood cultures should always be considered, such as Coxiella burnetii, Bartonella spp, Legionella spp, Mycoplasma spp, T. whipplei or slow-growing microorganisms with special requirements or difficult to determine, such as the members of the HACEK group (Haemophilus, Aggregatibacter, Cardiobacterium, Eikenella and Kingella spp), or others such as Abiothrophia spp, Granulicatella spp or Corynebacterium spp. In these cases it is always advisable to take repeated blood cultures and it should also be taken into account that in infections on synthetic material, the grouping of microorganisms in biofilms can lead to very silent pictures, with blood cultures only positive episodically, when planktonic microorganisms are released into the bloodstream from the matrix. On the other hand, the yield of transthoracic ultrasound in infection of these devices does not go beyond 20-30%, so other diagnostic procedures must often be considered.

Evolution
New blood cultures were taken (several serial batches on different days) and kept in prolonged incubation, obtaining isolation in series belonging to two different days of Corynebacterium amycolatum, with the same antibiogram as that isolated in the previous episode of infection of the electrostimulation system (resistant to beta-lactams, macrolides and quinolones). Transesophageal echocardiography showed complete destruction of the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve, causing severe regurgitation, with visualisation of small vegetations (less than 1 cm) in the cable, and a PET/CT study showed local hypermetabolic lesions at the intracardiac level and in the right infraclavicular fossa in relation to metallic material, as well as several diffuse hypermetabolic lesions in the right lung. PET/CT: metabolic hypermetabolic uptake at intracardiac level.
Combining the clinical aspects of the patient, the history of previous manipulation of the system and the blood cultures repeatedly positive for Corynebacterium amycolatum with a positive echocardiography, based on Duke's diagnostic criteria, the diagnosis of tricuspid endocarditis secondary to systemic infection of the cardiac electrostimulation system was reached.
Antibiotic treatment was then started with linezolid, which was poorly tolerated and had adverse effects on the skin and haematology (significant pancytopenia), so teicoplanin (400 mg/24 h) was switched to and open cardiac surgery was scheduled.
After recovery from the spinal cord aplasia secondary to linezolid, surgery was performed without incident, and the retained wires and the femoral insertion stimulation system were removed. At the valvular level, significant destruction of the tricuspid valve was observed, with total disappearance of the septal leaflet and involvement of the posterior leaflet, so valve replacement with a biological prosthesis was chosen. Finally, as the patient was completely pacemaker-dependent, a definitive epicardial pacemaker was placed, with good pacing thresholds. The patient's postoperative course was favourable with disappearance of signs of right failure and cough, progressive normalisation of renal function and complete haematological recovery.

Final diagnosis
Finally, the diagnosis was reached by microbiological culture and universal genomic analysis of the extracted system. Despite negative culture results after antimicrobial treatment, PCR genomic analysis of RNAr16S showed the presence of Corynebacterium amycolatum in the lead of the second implanted stimulation system.
