An 82-year-old man with a personal history of allergy to iodinated contrast, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and gastrointestinal bleeding related to taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 14 years ago. He underwent aortic valve replacement 10 years ago due to aortic valve stenosis, with implantation of a biological valve and reoperation 2 months ago due to degeneration of the aortic valve with implantation of a new Edwards Magna 23 biological prosthesis. During this last admission, he presented with de novo atrial fibrillation with a CHADS2 of 2, requiring oral anticoagulation at discharge.

He was admitted to Infectious Diseases one month ago for early prosthetic endocarditis possibly due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis. The patient progressed well and was discharged with daptomycin 750 mg/24h administered daily in the day hospital. His usual home treatment at this time was enalapril 20 mg/12 hours, simvastatin 20 mg/24 hours, furosemide 20 mg/24 hours, acenocoumarol according to controls, omeprazole 20 mg/24 hours and daptomycin 750 mg/24 hours.

On the seventh day after discharge, during his visit to the Day Hospital for the antibiotic infusion, he reported a fever, predominantly in the afternoon, as well as a slight increase in dyspnoea and poor general condition, but without digestive, urinary or abdominal symptoms. In view of his history, it was decided to admit him for further investigation.

On examination, the patient was in fair general condition with a blood pressure of 120/75 mmHg, a heart rate of 75 bpm, and a temperature of 38.5o C. Basal oxygen saturation 92%. Basal oxygen saturation 92% and weight 75 kg. On auscultation he was arrhythmic and there was a 1/4 ejection murmur in the aortic focus. He also had minimal crackles in both bases. Examination of the abdomen and lower extremities was unremarkable and there were no stigmata of endocarditis. On admission, blood tests showed 9950 leukocytes/mm3 with 86.3% neutrophils and an increase in liver enzymes (GOT 39 IU/L, GPT 40 IU/L, GGT 405 IU/L, FA 281 IU/L) with C-reactive protein (CRP) 312 mg/L. The anterior chest X-ray showed a condensation in the right hemithorax; The study was expanded with a chest CT scan two days later, which showed paratracheal, precarinal and aortopulmonary window lymphadenopathies of around one centimetre, a small right pleural effusion, paraseptal emphysema and multiple foci of consolidation with air bronchogram, tarnished glass and some areas with predominantly subpleural cobblestoning in the right hemithorax more than the left hemithorax.

Serial blood cultures taken on three occasions 3 days apart and urine cultures were negative and transthoracic echocardiography 3 and 14 days after admission showed a normofunctioning aortic bioprosthesis and left ventricular hypertrophy with preserved ventricular systolic function with no data suggestive of endocarditis.

Differential diagnosis
In this case we would have to make a differential diagnosis of fever and pulmonary condensation in a patient with a recent admission. As main causes we can distinguish: infectious, neoplastic and inflammatory/rheumatological or autoimmune. Given the patient's history of endocarditis and recent hospital admission, we might be more inclined, in the first place, towards an infectious cause of nosocomial origin, although without ruling out other possibilities: 1. Recurrent infectious endocarditis with acute pulmonary oedema: a transthoracic ultrasound was performed with no evidence of heart failure or malfunction of prosthesis and serial blood cultures to rule it out. Pneumonia of nosocomial origin for which empirical broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment was started pending results due to the possibility of resistant germs. Urine antigens for Pneumococcus and Legionella were negative; sputum tests could not be performed due to the patient's scant expectoration. Cryptogenetic organisative pneumonia: radiographic pattern similar to that of our patient but generally more subacute course, good response to steroids but frequent recurrences as there is no known trigger. Drug-associated eosinophilic pneumonia: similar to cryptogenetic organismal pneumonia but with a clear trigger, a drug, and with eosinophils in the bonchioloalveolar lavage. The drugs most frequently associated with this entity are methotrexate, nitrofurantoin, phenytoin and sulphonamides. Acute interstitial pneumonitis (Hamman-Rich syndrome): a disease with diffuse pulmonary involvement and respiratory failure that is distinguished from acute eosinophilic pneumonia by the absence of eosinophils in the bronchioloalveolar lavage. It usually manifests in a more acute and fulminant manner than the clinical presentation of our patient. Other possibilities, although more remote due to the evolution and because they would be independent of the initial episode, but which should be considered once the previous ones have been ruled out, are tumour or inflammatory aetiology: bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, pulmonary involvement due to vasculitis (Churg-Strauss syndrome, Goodpasture's syndrome, lupus pneumonitis, etc.) or allergic pulmonary aspergillosis.

Evolution
During admission, empirical broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy was started due to the possibility of nosocomial pneumonia, but the patient persisted with fever and elevated liver enzymes and CRP. These clinical data together with the findings of the chest CT scan supported the diagnosis of eosinophilic drug-induced pneumonia, suspecting daptomycin as the causative agent, for which reason it was decided to discontinue this antibiotic, to start corticosteroids at an initial dose of 40 mg of prednisolone every 12 hours and to change the antibiotic therapy to vancomycin for the remaining days until completing the six weeks scheduled for the endocarditis, with a very good clinical response.

At discharge the patient was afebrile and without dyspnoea, haemodynamically stable and with good baseline saturations. Liver enzymes and CRP were normalised. At the consultation one month after discharge with progressive reduction of steroids, the patient was stable and without respiratory symptoms, the control chest CT scan showed multiple foci of consolidation with air bronchogram, tarnished glass and some areas of cobblestones, predominantly right subpleural, but with significant improvement with respect to the CT scan on admission. The control CT scan three months after discharge showed no more areas of ground glass or cobblestones, and the CT scan was normal except for the paraseptal emphysema.

Final diagnosis
Severe pulmonary toxicity due to Daptomycin (probable eosinophilic pneumonia) in a patient with early aortic endocarditis due to multidrug-resistant S. epidermidis.
