A 49-year-old man with a history of asthma, dyslipidaemia, HIV positive on antiretroviral treatment (abacavir, lamivudine, dolutegravir), treated primary syphilis and bipolar disorder. No allergies, smoker, social drinker with no other intoxicants.
Three weeks before admission he presented with fever, rectal tenesmus and proctalgia. An ultrasound and abdominal CT scan showed hepatomegaly suggestive of steatosis and non-obstructive calcific lithiasis. He received no treatment. Subsequently, he presented fever with chills and significant deterioration of general condition. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed aortic valve vegetation. He was referred for admission. Physical examination was normal, with no murmurs. CBC showed lymphocytes 1,300 /ul and elevated CRP (42 mg/l). Chest X-ray showed a calcific image of calcification. Chest X-ray showed a calcified image in the left hilum. Normal ECG. With the suspected diagnosis of acute endocarditis on native aortic valve in an immunocompetent HIV patient, blood cultures were performed and treatment was started with cloxacillin, ampicillin and gentamicin.
During admission the following tests were performed: blood tests with CRP 96.3 mg/l, ESR 55 mm and GPT 72 U/L, GGT 197 U/L, LDH 402 U/L; transesophageal echocardiogram confirmed the diagnosis and ruled out complications; rectoanuscopy showed lesions in the rectal mucosa compatible with proctitis; anal smear with PCR for Chlamydia trachomatis was positive (serotype L2B negative); stool culture was negative; blood cultures at 3 weeks were negative. Suspecting possible endocarditis with negative blood cultures, infectious serology was performed with only positive results for Chlamydia trachomatis at very high titres of 1/256. Azithromycin 1 g was added to the treatment and doxycycline was started.
In summary, this is an immunocompetent HIV-positive patient who initially presented with digestive symptoms of proctalgia and rectal tenesmus secondary to proctitis caused by Chlamydia Trachomatis. Subsequently, he developed systemic involvement, high fever and chills and was diagnosed by echocardiogram as possibly having acute aortic endocarditis. Blood cultures were negative after 3 weeks, so we considered the differential diagnosis of endocarditis with negative blood cultures. The infectious serology study showed a very high titre for Chlamydia trachomatis with negative serotype L2B, which could support the diagnosis of Chlamydia trachomatis endocarditis, a very rare pathology with very few cases described.
