A 78-year-old man with a mechanical mitral valve since 2016 due to severe mitral insufficiency following mitral endocarditis in 1986 and bladder neoplasia under study. He consulted for general malaise, fever and haematuria without dysuria since a cystoscopy had been performed the previous week. Physical examination revealed a panfocal II/VI systolic murmur predominantly in the mitral focus with no other noteworthy findings and laboratory tests revealed discrete normocytic normochromic anaemia with haemoglobin of 11.7 g/dl, discrete leukocytosis of 9,690/mm3 and elevated acute phase reactants with C-reactive protein of 107.7 mg/L. With the initial diagnosis of acute prostatitis, empirical ciprofloxacin was started.
Initial blood cultures taken in the ED identified Streptococccus infantarius (former group bovis biotype II), with negative urine culture. In view of the findings, antibiotic therapy was changed to ceftriaxone, an echocardiographic study was requested to rule out endocarditis and control blood cultures were taken. Control blood cultures showed Enterococcus faecium and antibiotic therapy was changed to teicoplanin 10mg/kg/24h to cover both bacteria.
Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography showed a mobile linear image of up to 13 mm in the anterior mitral annulus suggestive of vegetation originating at that point in a jet of moderate prosthetic insufficiency. The findings were also confirmed by PET-CT scan describing hypermetabolic activity in the mitral prosthetic valve with no other significant alterations.
In view of the microbiological findings, the study was completed with a colonoscopy with the finding of 15 polyps that were resected with an anatomopathological study compatible with low-grade dysplasia and 1 polyp with high-grade dysplasia. A planned TUR of the bladder neoplasm was also performed with the finding of low-grade, non-infiltrating pTa G2a urothelial carcinoma with PET-CT without locoregional adenopathies or extravesical extension.
Given the diagnosis of mitral prosthetic endocarditis without local complications, 6 weeks of antibiotic treatment with glycopeptides was completed with good clinical evolution and with negative outpatient blood cultures 2 and 4 weeks after completing antibiotic therapy.
