This is a 69-year-old man with a history of polymyalgia rheumatica, tubulo-interstitial nephritis secondary to taking metamizole and diabetes secondary to prolonged corticosteroid treatment. She was being treated with prednisone 10 mg per day, omeprazole and insulin glargine. She came to the emergency department with dizziness, weakness and gait instability that caused her to fall accidentally with no sequelae, over 24 hours of evolution. He had not experienced headache, vomiting or any other symptoms due to equipment.

On examination, the patient was in good general condition, conscious and oriented, well hydrated and perfused, haemodynamically stable, with a fever of 38oC. On neurological examination he presented with a Glasgow scale score of 15 out of 15 points, isochoric and reactive pupils with paralysis of the supraversion of the gaze, hemiparesis 3/5 in the left upper and lower left limbs and left extensor plantar cutaneous reflex, together with gait ataxia.

Complementary tests performed in the ED showed discrete normocytic-normochromic anaemia (Hb 10.2) with normal leukocytes, leukocyte formula, platelets and coagulation; glucose 162 mg/dL, Cr 1.62 mg/dL, Na 133 mmol/L and CRP 7.4 mg/L. ECG and chest X-ray showed no abnormalities. Haemocultures were requested. A cranial CT scan was performed, which showed malvdelimited hypodensity in the posterior arm of the internal capsule and posterior area of the right thalamus, compatible with a focus of early cerebritis.
CT scan of the skull without contrast: hypodensity compatible with a focus of early cerebritis in the posterior arm of the internal capsule - right thalamus.

Differential diagnosis
In an immunosuppressed patient with neurological focality we must rule out:
- Ischaemic or haemorrhagic cerebrovascular disease. Given the age of our patient, a cerebrovascular accident must be ruled out. The patient's only cardiovascular risk factor is diabetes secondary to steroid treatment with good glycaemic control and no sudden onset of symptoms. Together with the subacute clinical manifestations of the process, this allows us to rule out the diagnosis of stroke.
- Neoplastic involvement of the CNS: primary or metastatic tumour. We must not forget the possibility of tumour disease, whether primary (glioblastoma multiforme, lymphoma due to being an immunosuppressed patient) or metastatic (more frequent in the case of pulmonary primary or melanoma). The patient was a non-smoker and had no skin lesions of interest, which initially, together with the CT findings, led us to dismiss tumour disease.
- Infectious disease: brain abscess. In immunocompromised patients it is important to cover pathogens that are infrequent in immunocompetent patients, and empirical antibiotherapy directed at these microorganisms should be initiated. The most frequent microorganisms to consider in immunocompromised patients are Toxoplasma gondii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida, Coccidioides, Cryptococcus neoformans, Haemophilus influenzae, Nocardia spp, Streptococcus pneumoniae or Listeria monocytogenes.

Evolution
In the emergency department, following the findings of the cranial CT scan, empirical antiobiotic treatment was started based on ampicillin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and meropenem, with subsequent admission to the internal medicine department. On the ward, complementary tests were extended with antigenemia for Cryptococcus neoformans and serology for Toxoplasma gondii, both of which were negative, in addition to echocardiography, which ruled out the presence of vegetations at the valvular level. Cranial MRI was performed with diffusion sequences, which showed ill-defined areas with an epicentre in the nuclei of the right base and capsular, thalamic and, to a lesser extent, homolateral cerebral peduncle involvement, with a digitiform appearance, with a compressive effect on the ventricular system although without displacement of the midline, with central ring enhancement, with a maximum diameter of 22 mm. 
Cranial T1-weighted MRI with contrast iv: ill-defined area of digitiform appearance with mass effect on the ventricular system with central ring enhancement, compatible with brain abscess in the nuclei of the right base with capsular and thalamic involvement.
This area showed diffusion restriction. 
MRI with diffusion sequences showing central restriction of the lesion.
All these findings, taken together, were diagnostic of an abscess of infectious origin and perilesional oedema. Finally, the results of the blood cultures were positive for Listeria monocytogenes, and the antibiotic treatment was changed to ampicillin and gentamicin. Clinically, the patient evolved favourably from the neurological point of view, with improvement of the left hemiparesis and normalisation of the supraversion of the gaze. Control blood cultures were performed one week later and were negative, with a decrease in acute phase reactants during the analytical evolution. After 14 days of treatment, gentamicin was discontinued and ampicillin was maintained until 6 weeks had elapsed. A control cranial MRI was performed one month after starting antibiotic therapy, showing a slight decrease in the size of the abscess, with persistence of the cerebritis area and slight mass effect due to perilesional oedema. After completing 6 weeks of intravenous treatment with ampicillin, given the clinical improvement of the neurological deficit, it was decided to discharge the patient home with antibiotherapy based on linezolid 600 mg/12hours orally for a further 3 weeks, with an appointment at the Internal Medicine outpatient clinic for review.

Final diagnosis
Brain abscess due to Listeria monocytogenes located at the level of the internal capsule and right thalamus in a patient immunosuppressed by prolonged treatment with corticosteroids.
