A 53-year-old man was admitted with sepsis without a clear focus.
The patient had a personal history of chronic osteomyelitis of the calcaneus secondary to an ulcer of 8 years of evolution due to neuropathy of the left sciatic nerve in the middle third of the thigh caused by a bull horn injury in 1993, leaving a club foot as a sequel. Followed by Traumatology during these years the patient has presented multiple admissions for worsening of ulcer in the heel as well as multiple microbiological isolations of multiresistant microorganisms requiring intravenous antibiotherapy and multiple surgical debridements.
During a trip to Brazil, the patient was admitted for acute coronary syndrome with conventional stent placement in the anterior descending artery and during this admission he presented with septic shock of probable respiratory origin, requiring admission to the intensive care unit and orotracheal intubation. After several months in hospital, the patient returned to Spain, where he was admitted with symptoms compatible with sepsis without a clear focus. Complementary examinations revealed pulmonary condensation in the right base and physical examination revealed scattered rhonchi, oedema and erythema in the forefoot area with a known ulcer that was closing by second intention. Fluid therapy and empirical antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone and levofloxacin was started, with improvement in BP and diuresis. During his admission, an MRI of the ankle was requested, showing the presence of abscesses and bone infarcts with a significant increase in inflammatory activity compared to the previous scan in November 2015, and Staphylococcus aureus methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus was isolated in a culture of the heel ulcer. A few days after admission, the patient began to experience dorsal-lumbar pain that prevented him from resting and new febrile peaks. On physical examination, he had pain on percussion in the spinous process at the level of D11, so a dorsal spine X-ray was requested with loss of vertebral height of the soma of D11 with marked vertebral wedging. Treatment was started with vancomycin and rifampicin. For all these reasons, a thoracic CT scan and MRI of the spine were requested, which showed subacute spondylodiscitis D10- 11 subacute spondylodiscitis in evolution possibly secondary to haematogenous dissemination secondary to the focus of osteomyelitis Despite correct antibiotic therapy, the patient presented new feverish peaks and local worsening in the left ankle, so the case was discussed with the Traumatology Department and it was decided, given the poor evolution of the osteomyelitis of the ankle and the presence of complications, to perform an amputation which was successfully carried out and to continue antibiotic treatment, with progressive improvement of dorsal pain, defervescence and reduction of acute phase reactants.
