A 67-year-old man with a history of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia diagnosed a year ago, undergoing chemotherapy, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (splenectomised), and steroidal diabetes. He consulted the emergency department for 3 months of mild to moderate dyspnoea, which in the last 3 days became minimal effort, associated with a dry cough and fever of up to 38.5°C. Physical examination revealed tachycardia, polypnoea, pallor of the mucous membranes and left-sided basal cramps (afebrile and normotensive). Initial laboratory tests showed hypochromic microcytic anaemia (haematocrit 26%), leukocytosis of 20,600 with 78% neutrophils, and HSV 51 mm/hr. Renal function and coagulation tests were normal. Chest X-ray showed multiple bilateral foci of condensation. He was admitted with a diagnosis of multifocal pneumonia and intravenous antibiotic treatment was started. Chest CT scan showed bilateral pulmonary parenchymal phenomena, interpreted as infectious in origin, and signs of bilateral pulmonary fibrosis, with a non-specific pattern (probably secondary to cytotoxic drugs).

Diagnosis: Gastric mucormycosis

CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis shows parietal thickening of the gastric fundus, associated with enlarged lymph nodes in the gastrohepatic ligament. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed an ulcerated body lesion with a neoplastic appearance (Bormann II), which was biopsied. The patient evolved favourably and was discharged with oral antibiotic treatment, and then a decision was made on the management of the gastric lesion. The histopathological report showed exacerbated chronic gastritis with fungal colonies, which were later confirmed by culture as filamentous fungus Rhyzopus Cryzae, compatible with gastric mucormycosis. He was readmitted for systemic amphotericin B. Initial tík Jnte evolves with extension of gastric involvement and then develops a pulmonary embolism (confirmed with angioCT), which makes it necessary to start anticoagulant therapy, despite the high risk. Two days later, he developed upper gastrointestinal bleeding with haemodynamic compromise that responded to medical management. Finally, he developed progressive respiratory failure and acute renal failure, and antifungal therapy was discontinued. The patient died one month after diagnosis.

Axial section and CT reconstructions of the thorax, abdomen and pelvis: sagittal and coronal, with oral and intravenous contrast. Parietal thickening of the gastric fundus, in a partially distended stomach.
