Three year old patient.
No remarkable perinatal history.
Normal weight-bearing and psychomotor development. Vaccinated according to schedule.
Episode of mild bronchiolitis at 5 months. Good evolution with outpatient treatment.
At 18 months of age he began recurrent wheezing and saturation drops, treated with inhaled Ventolin and oral corticosteroids in some episodes.

At two years of age he was admitted for spastic bronchitis with poor response to outpatient treatment: inhaled beta-2 in chamber and oral corticosteroids.
Sudden drop in saturation. Afebrile
Nasopharyngeal smear: negative for RSV, adenovirus, influenza A virus and influenza B virus. CRP: 11 mg/L.
Chest X-ray: normal.
He was treated with nebulised Ventolin for three days. He evolved well and was discharged.

He started preventive inhaled therapy with budesonide 400 mcg/day.
Twenty days after discharge he presented with an intense emetic cough, with rhonchi and bilateral crackles. Afebrile.
Poor response to inhaled therapy.
Clinical and cardiopulmonary auscultation improved with oral antibiotic: amoxicillin 80mg/kg/day for 10 days.
Preventive therapy with inhaled budesonide is maintained.
Episodes of intermittent productive cough of variable duration (10-14 days) for 5 months, treated with inhaled therapy with very irregular evolution, are recorded in the clinical history.

SECOND ADMISSION
Five months after the first admission, he presented a high fever of 5 days' evolution with intense cough and crackles in the lung bases, and antibiotic therapy with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid was started.
Two days later he was seen again with fever and hypoxaemia.
He was referred to a hospital for assessment and was admitted for hypoxaemia.
Chest X-ray on admission with bilateral bronchial infiltrates and right basal consolidation. CRP: 11.5 mg/L, PCT: 0.259 ng/mL.
Anti Epstein barr IgM positive, Mycoplasma pneumoniae IgM doubtful, Chlamydia Ig M and IgG Negative; Coxiella burnetti F2 IgM positive (Verbally reported as most likely false positive); Legionella IgG and IgM negative.
Adenovirus and Enterovirus positive. Other viruses negative.
PCR: 11.5 mg/L, PCT: 0.259 ng/ml.
Antibiotic therapy was withdrawn during admission. Fever subsided within 48 hours and he responded well to oxygen therapy and inhaled beta-2.
He was discharged with a diagnosis of viral pneumonia.
Twenty days after discharge, productive cough persisted. He received a new course of oral amoxicillin (10 days), with disappearance of cough and no alterations in pulmonary auscultation.
Outpatient Mantoux test and first level screening for recurrent infections were performed: Haemogram, biochemistry, Igs levels, complement, with no notable alterations.
Due to his history of pneumonia and evolution after discharge with cough and altered pulmonary auscultation, the chest X-ray was repeated one and a half months after admission.
Persistent right basal condensation and rail images suggestive of bronchiectasis were observed.
He was referred to the pulmonology department, which completed the study with a CAT scan (high-resolution CT): central bronchial obstructions were observed in the middle lobe and medial segments of the right lower lobe and anteromedial segments of the left lower lobe, with postobstructive bronchiectasis and air trapping.
Given the results of the CAT scan, they decided to perform fibrobronchoscopy.
Bronchoalveolar lavage culture: Haemophilus influenzae (sensitive to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid). Mycobacteria and fungi: negative.
Antibiotherapy with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for 14 days.

Lymphocyte subpopulations and immunoglobulin subclasses: normal.
Aspergillus-specific Ig E: negative.
Sweat test: 24 mmol/L (normal).
Vaccine response: pneumococcus, tetanus, Haemophilus: normal.
Complement study: CH-50 38.1 IU/ml; C-3 113 mlgrs/100; C-4 28 mlgrs/100: normal.

He received a dose of 13-valent pneumococcal vaccine followed by a dose of 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine two months later.
At present he is undergoing respiratory physiotherapy as the only basic treatment.
She has presented new episodes of productive cough without fever with response to beta 2 inhaled on demand and respiratory physiotherapy without hypoxaemia.

