A 33 year old woman under gynaecological examination for secondary amenorrhoea with a normal pituitary profile and previous episodes of pelvic inflammatory disease. Given that the hormonal profile was completely normal and she was not deprived by high-dose hormonal treatment, an endometrial origin of the amenorrhoea was suspected.
She had no drug allergies or other medical history of interest. On genital examination she had a vaginal ulcer, cervix with periorificial ectopia bleeding on contact and leucorrhoea of non-pathological appearance. Gynaecology requested an endometrial biopsy for study and cultures of the vaginal ulcer.
She was referred to the Internal Medicine outpatient clinic from Gynaecology after finding the anatomopathological result of the endometrial biopsy (see attached image): fragments of endometrial mucosa in which an epithelium with an initial secretory pattern is observed, highlighting the presence of a lymphoid infiltrate in the endometrial stroma together with frequent granulomas, without necrosis, in which the presence of numerous Langerhans-type giant cells can be observed. The study with special techniques (Zhiel-Neelsen) did not show the existence of acid-alcohol resistant bacterial organisms; with a conclusive anatomopathological diagnosis of granulomatous endometritis.
Treatment was started with isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol, pending the results of the Mantoux test and the culture of mycobacteria in a vaginal sample. The patient remained asymptomatic, although she continued to have amenorrhoea. Subsequently, the results of the Mantoux test (15 mm) and mycobacterial culture in the vaginal specimen were positive for Mycobacterium bovis sensitive to streptomycin, ethambutol, isoniazid and rifampicin, and resistant to pyrazinamide. Therefore, pyrazinamide was discontinued leaving the patient on 3 drugs for a total duration of 9 months. Mycobacterium bovis also grew in the Löwenstein-Jensen culture medium. After antibiotic treatment the resolution of the endometritis and granulomatous vaginitis due to Mycobacterium bovis was resolved and the patient has evolved satisfactorily.
