Anamnesis
A 49-year-old man from Ecuador who has been living in Spain since 2002. His only history of interest was extrinsic asthma and monorrhagic asthma since birth. He consulted the doctor for asymptomatic skin lesions on the right foot, which had been growing slowly for 15 years. They began in the heel region, later extending towards the lateral and medial area of the foot, initially flattened and becoming more warty with the passage of time. The patient reported that he had suffered a traumatic injury in the same location many years ago when he worked as a shop assistant. He had no recollection of insect bites in the area, had not travelled abroad, and had not been to swimming pools or saunas.

Physical examination
He had erythematous tuberous lesions on the right foot with a warty, crusted, infiltrated surface in the posterior area and erythematous, scaly plaques with fairly well-defined borders on the inner and outer side of the foot. There was no suppuration or pain on palpation. There were no lesions in other locations and the patient's general condition was good, with no fever or systemic symptoms.

Complementary examinations
A skin biopsy showed a hyperplastic epidermis with hyperkeratosis and marked acanthosis and irregular papillomatosis. The dermis showed an inflammatory infiltrate consisting of numerous histiocytes forming small granulomatous structures without necrosis, as well as lymphocytes, plasma cells and eosinophils. Ziehl Neelsen staining was negative. Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was isolated in culture (Löwenstein-Jensen medium). The tuberculin or Mantoux test was positive. A chest X-ray was requested, which showed calcified micronodules, and a sputum smear test was negative, ruling out active pulmonary tuberculosis. In addition, a CBC was performed, which was normal, with negative serology.

Diagnosis
Cutaneous warty tuberculosis.

Treatment
Given that the isolated mycobacterium was sensitive to first-line antituberculosis drugs, treatment was started with isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol for 2 months, with the intention of continuing the following 4 months with isoniazid and rifampicin, until completing 6 months of antituberculosis treatment.

Evolution
A few weeks after treatment, a control analysis revealed an elevation of transaminases (ALT and AST) 5 times higher than the upper limit of normal, so tuberculostatic treatment was completely suspended. After normalisation of liver enzymes was confirmed, treatment was restarted with ethambutol and rifampicin, followed by pyrazinamide. The patient developed new hepatotoxicity, which made it necessary to stop treatment again. Once the liver enzymes had normalised, rifampicin and ethambutol were introduced, and a week later isoniazid was added, which is the patient's current treatment. The skin lesions are improving, albeit slowly.
