Anamnesis
A 72-year-old woman came to the dermatology clinic for a lesion of six days' evolution on the left elbow, associated with fever in the days prior to the consultation, otherwise without other symptoms. She had suffered a trauma to the area with a plant two weeks earlier, although this history was not reported until several days after the first contact with our department. The patient had no family history of interest and suffered from type II diabetes mellitus in treatment with oral antidiabetics, hypothyroidism in replacement treatment with levothyroxine and breast cancer in remission since 2009. She had no toxic habits, recent changes in her usual medication or contact with the countryside and/or animals.

Physical examination
On the left elbow there was an erythematous and violaceous plaque of approximately 2x2.5 cm, circular, with a pseudovesicular and pustular surface that later ulcerated and showed a haemorrhagic-purulent exudate and a perilesional erythematous halo. In addition, there were mobile lymph nodes approximately 1 cm in size and painful at the axillary level and medially to the antecubital fossa.

Complementary examinations
The following complementary tests were performed:
1. Iconography. Photograph of the primary skin lesion and of the adenopathies in transit after the patient had signed an informed consent form.
Biopsy. After signing the informed consent form and under local anaesthesia with 2% mepivacaine, samples were taken with a 4 mm punch from the periphery of the lesion and from the centre. These samples were sent to anatomical pathology and microbiology respectively. Pathological anatomy: the biopsy revealed an unaltered epidermis and a histiocytic infiltrate in the hypodermis (detected by CD68 staining), microabcesses and necrosis. There was no evidence of fungal infection on silver staining. Microbiology: cultures were grown on Sabouraud dextrose Agar medium, among others, and orange colonies giving off a damp earthy odour were obtained, which were identified as Nocardia brasiliensis. An antibiogram showed sensitivity to: trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole, linezolid, cefotaxime, amoxicillin/clavulanate and tigecycline; and resistance to: amikacin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, imipenem.
Culture and Gram. Samples were obtained with a swab for culture and Gram staining. Culture and gram stain of the exudate showed external contamination flora.
3. Analytical analysis
- Haemoglobin: haemoglobin: 10.6 g/dl, leucocytes: 5550 with normal formula, platelets 291000, V.S.G.: 26 mm/hour.
- Biochemistry: normal hepatic and renal profiles with C-reactive protein levels of 28.5 mg/L.
- Proteinogram: tracing compatible with moderate inflammatory syndrome and moderate hypogammaglobulinemia.
- Normal coagulation.
4. Serology for rickettsiae and borrelia were negative.

Diagnosis
Nodular lymphangitis due to nocardia brasiliensis.

Treatment
Initially, a clinical diagnosis of possible arthropod bite was established and empirical treatment with cefotaxime 1g/8 h IV, metronidazole 500 mg/8 h IV and ciprofloxacin 250mg/12 h PO, in addition to local treatment with fusidic acid and betamethasone. After microbiological diagnosis, the treatment of choice was established with trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole 169mg/800mg every 12 hours for three months.

Evolution
The patient's evolution was favourable, with complete healing of the primary lesion three weeks after the treatment of choice and disappearance of the lymphadenopathy in transit after one month. There was no evidence of cytopenias throughout the treatment and the patient is currently asymptomatic.
