A 36-year-old male patient from Caracas, from Birongo, Miranda state. His illness started with an erythematous and pruritic papule in the lumbar region which later ulcerated. He attended several health care centres in his locality and was treated as a pyogenic infectious process with oral antibiotics, topical antiseptics and was diagnosed with localised cutaneous leishmaniasis, for which he was given immunotherapy for the parasitosis (five intramuscular doses of dead Leishmania amastigotes and BCG). The ulcer did not improve and continued to increase in size, so he went to the Rural Endemics Clinic of the Tropical Medicine Department of the 'Luis Razetti' School of Medicine of the UCV. Epidemiological background: he lives in Birongo (belonging to the Barlovento area), an endemic area of the disease with the highest incidence of cases at the clinic. The patient is a bus driver and spends most of the day sitting, leaning on his back. Physical examination: patient in apparent good general condition; dark brown skin, with lesions measuring approximately 1x1.5 cm, five in number, on the right deltoid region. Oval ulcer measuring 8 x 9 cm in the right posteroinferior lumbar region with an erythematous-violaceous, raised and irregular border, dry and clean background, with abundant granulation tissue and warty lesions, painful to the touch with seropurulent secretion. The patient was given 500 mg of oral cefadroxil twice a day for 7 days. Intradermal leishmanin test and indirect fluorescent antileishmania antibodies were positive, and smear by apposition of segments of the ulcer stained with Giemsa revealed the presence of Leishmania amastigotes. Treatment was indicated with two 10-day courses of antimoniate at a dose of 3,000 mg/day intramuscularly, with a 10-day rest period between each course. The patient improved and subsequently developed residual warty scar lesions. Five months later he returned with oozing cracked lesions in the scar area. He was given a second course (two treatment series) at a dose of 4,500 mg meglumine daily with improvement of his lesions. Serum aminotransferases were elevated at the end of the second course of treatment. The patient returned with ulcerative and cracked lesions, superimposed on the initial warty lesions. He was admitted to the Adult Infectious Diseases Service of the HUC. The parasite was again identified in the smear by apposition of the lesions. Routine bioanalytical and cardiovascular evaluation was performed prior to LTA treatment. Amphotericin B was administered at a dose of 1 mg/kg-weight/day for 45 days. The patient improved, the ulcers healed and six months later recovery was noted with persistence of the warty lesions. The patient was re-evaluated at six months and discharged from the clinic. 
