A 70-year-old man with a feeling of "painful tightness" in the muscles of the face and neck and difficulty swallowing food. He is hypertensive undergoing treatment, has undergone surgery for bilateral inguinal hernia and is an ex-smoker. BP 183/104, temperature 35.8, heart rate 107, oxygen saturation 97%. He is conscious, oriented, regular general condition and profuse sweating. Meningeal negative. No rash or petechiae. Oropharyngeal cavity is normal, cranial nerves normal. Cervical stiffness, pain in the cervical spinous processes and contracture of the paravertebral musculature. Cardiac auscultation is rhythmic at 96 bpm, pulmonary auscultation preserves the murmur. The abdomen is soft, depressible, non-painful. In the lower extremities there was a 4 x 3 cm wound with necrotic edges in the left pretibial area. We asked the patient about the wound: he had sustained it eight days earlier with a motorbike.
He went to his PAC for treatment, suturing (eight stitches) and administration of tetanus vaccine (he had been vaccinated for eight years). No gamma-globulin was administered. Three days before coming to our department, he had been treated by his doctor, who prescribed amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875/125 and ibuprofen. Additional tests were requested and symptomatic treatment was prescribed to cover possible meningitis or tetanus, in addition to the wound infection: Ketorolac. Pantoprazole. Cefotaxime 2 g and vancomycin 1 g. Dexamethasone 8 mg. Diazepam 5 mg. Anti-tetanus gamma globulin. Doxycycline 100 mg, and metronidazole 500 mg. Oxygen by glasses at 2 lpm. Wound dressing with H2O2. Complementary tests: CBC N, except for 15,550 leukocytes with neutrophilia (90.4%). Biochemistry N, except CK 555, CKmb 7, 4, myoglobin 794,4. CRP 5. Calcium 7.8. Coagulation normal. Venous gases: pH 7.41, PCO2 37, lactate 1.1, bicarbonate 23.5. Chest X-ray: no findings. ECG: RS at 75 bpm, QRS axis at 0o, without alterations. Surgical assessment: the wound was debrided, a sample was taken for culture, and the wound was treated with argentic sulphadiazine. The patient seemed to improve with the treatment, but after a few hours he had more tension in the muscles of the face and neck, with difficulty swallowing saliva. The intensivist was alerted, with suspicion of tetanus (necrotic wound and facial trismus). He was assessed by intensive medicine and admitted with the diagnosis: "subacute tetanus". He was admitted with acceptable general condition, but began repeated hypertonic crises with stimuli + respiratory failure, requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation. The patient was treated with: Baclofen. Metronidazole and cefotaxime. (Wound culture negative). Fluconazole (C. Glabrata in urine). Heparin, then acenocoumarol (venous thrombosis in the left leg). Continued tetanus vaccination (2nd dose). Survived, after thirteen days in ICU and one month on the internal medicine ward.
