Anamnesis
A 33-year-old male patient with diabetes mellitus type 1, managed by insulin pump, was seen urgently for pruritic lesions. He consulted urgently due to pruritic lesions on the palms of both hands which had been present for 3 days, with subsequent appearance on the soles of the feet and the periorbuccal area. The previous week he had suffered an upper respiratory tract infection with febrile fever which he had begun to treat 5 days earlier with Azithromycin, Acetylcysteine and Paracetamol. When questioned again, the patient stated that he had had contact for a short time with a schoolboy, a schoolmate of his daughter's, who had lesions in the same distribution. The patient's daughter did not present any skin lesions or infectious symptoms.

Physical examination
The patient had erythematous-violaceous macules with poorly defined borders and a confluent appearance on the palms and soles of the hands and feet. On the dorsum of the feet, extensor region of both forearms and peribuccal region there are yellowish papulovesicles, some of them in a crusty phase, on an erythematous base. At present there are no lesions on the oral, conjunctival or genital mucosa. No lymphadenopathies were palpable and the rest of the physical examination was normal.

Complementary examinations
A sample was sent to the microbiology department for detection of enterovirus by PCR (taken with a swab after removal of the scab from one of the lesions on the forearm) and a punch biopsy was performed on another lesion. Although the enterovirus PCR used was specific for cerebrospinal fluid, the test was positive. Histopathology with haematoxylin-eosin revealed a re-epithelialised blistering skin lesion with epidermal necrosis. In view of the non-specific pathological findings and clinical suspicion, biopsy material was sent for molecular testing for enterovirus (Entherpex kit, which studies coxsakie and echovirus together), which was also positive.

Diagnosis
Hand-foot-and-mouth disease in an adult patient.

Treatment
Betamethasone valerate / Gentamicin sulphate 1 mg/g cream, one application per day for 7 days.

Evolution
The patient came for a check-up 15 days later with absolute resolution of the lesions. He also reported a good evolution of the catarrhal symptoms, being totally asymptomatic at that time. During this period her daughter has not developed any dermatological lesions or infectious symptoms.
