A 57-year-old immunocompetent woman attended the emergency department for ocular discomfort and bilateral visual impairment. On examination, visual acuity (VA) was 0.125 in the right eye (OD) and 0.2 in the left eye (OI). Biomicroscopy showed keratitis with endothelial folds and posterior synechiae in both eyes (AO), 1+ cells in the anterior chamber (AC). Ocular tension was normal in AO. Fundus examination (FO) showed intense bilateral vitritis, suspecting the presence of vasculitis. Topical treatment was prescribed with dexamethasone, trobramycin and atropine eye drops.

After 48 hours, vision decreased to hand movement in AO with more intense vitritis. Hospital admission and treatment with topical dexamethasone (90 drops), intravenous methylprednisolone (40 mg every 12 h) and Ciprofloxacin (200 mg every 12 h) was decided.

A slight improvement, after 7 days, in the inflammation of the anterior pole and the rupture of synechiae allowed a better view of the FO by observing vitreous turbidity and foci of chorioretinitis in the posterior pole.

Infectious serology was positive for syphilis, HAART + (1/320) with no other analytical findings. Imaging tests, magnetic resonance imaging of the skull and orbits and chest X-ray were unaltered.

In the more detailed anamnesis the patient reported a gynaecological infection that could be compatible with syphilitic chancroid 35 years ago.

Because of the possibility of neurological syphilis, a CSF puncture was performed, which was found to be normal.

After repeating the serology, being the TPHA + (1/640) with Total Ac + for Lues, it was decided to treat with Penicillin G Benzathine 2.4 million I.U. intramuscularly every week for 3 weeks, in addition to topical and general corticosteroids in a descending pattern.

The clinical evolution was favourable, improving visual acuity to 0.1 in OD and 0.3 in OI after the first injection. VA continued to improve, although with significant visual field (VF) impairment and decreased generalised and bilateral sensitivity.

In subsequent reviews, the chorioretinitis foci were better observed, with hyperfluorescent areas in early stages in fluorescein angiography (FAG), which are maintained in later stages and correspond to hypofluorescence with indocyanine green (ICG) in intermediate and late phases in relation to possible choroidal granulomas, which will subsequently heal, leaving atrophy of the pigment epithelium.

At 3 months the VA in OD was 0.8 and unity in OI, remaining the same at 6, 12 and 24 months of evolution, with scattered chorioretinal atrophy foci without signs of activity in vitreous and with a normal CV in AO.
