A 43-year-old woman, a cleaner of cargo trucks in the port of Lirquén, was referred from a peripheral hospital with a history of sudden onset of high fever, chills, general malaise and severe dyspnoea for 7 days. She had a history of smoking 20 packs/year and reported having progressive dyspnoea for a year accompanied by a dry cough.

On physical examination, she was febrile, with a temperature of 38°C, polypneic, peripheral cyanosis and digital hypochromia. Chest examination showed bilateral velcro-like crackles.

General laboratory showed an LDH of 670 IU/l, severe hypoxaemic respiratory failure with a PaO2 of 51.9 mmHg breathing 50% supplemental oxygen; an alveolar-arterial PO2 difference of 49.6 mm Hg, leucocyte count of 4,940 /mm3, C-reactive protein of 1 mg/ml and procalcitonin of 0.05 μg/l. Renal and liver function were normal.

The chest X-ray at that time showed a bilateral diffuse infiltrate without pleural effusion or cardiomegaly and the echocardiogram showed only mild dilatation of the left atrium with good biventricular function.

A preliminary diagnosis of multilobar pneumonia of viral aetiology was made, as it was mid-June and therefore the influenza season in our country. Treatment was started with oseltamivir, bronchodilators and, despite clinical guidelines to the contrary, steroids at a dose of 100 mg of cortisol ev every 8 h. Subsequently, both the viral panel for influenza, parainfluenza and other respiratory viruses and the HIV test were negative.

A high-resolution chest computed tomography (HRCT) scan showed diffuse, bilateral ground-glass attenuation with diffuse septal thickening, a pattern known as crazy paving, with preservation of lung volumes. The patient remained in respiratory failure and faced with a probable exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, she received three boluses of 1 g methylprednisolone followed by prednisone at a dose of 1 mg/kg daily, with no improvement after 23 days of therapy.

Functional respiratory tests showed a mild restrictive pattern on spirometry with a FVC of 1.87 l (69%), an FEV1 of 1.86 l (73%) and severe exercise limitation, walking only 258 m in 6 min (68%) with haemoglobin desaturation at 68% at the end of the test. On that occasion it was impossible to perform a diffusion study of carbon monoxide (DLCO).

A video bronchoscopy was normal and bronchoalveolar lavage found no germs or neoplastic cells. In the case of a severe patient who did not respond to treatment, it was decided to perform a surgical biopsy by videothoracoscopy. The operative specimen showed maintenance of the pulmonary architecture with alveoli filled with amorphous eosinophilic material that stained positively with Periodic Acid Schiff (PAS), findings consistent with the diagnosis of Pulmonary Alveolar Proteinosis.

The postoperative period was torpid, requiring support with non-invasive mechanical ventilation; she had bilateral pneumothorax and bilateral pleural drainage was installed, increasing the inflammatory parameters with an image of cavitated consolidation in the apical segment of the left lower lobe, for which antibiotic therapy based on meropenem and vancomycin was added.

Once recovered from the acute symptoms, the patient underwent total pulmonary lavage (TPL) under general anaesthesia using 14 l of physiological solution for each lung according to the protocol recommended by international guidelines, without obtaining changes in both gas exchange parameters and images, and furthermore, a worsening of her functional alterations was observed. In fact, the post-LPT chest CT scan was practically the same as that obtained on admission. One month post LPT the patient maintained a PaO2 of 53.3 mmHg with a FiO2 of 50%; FVC had decreased to 1.51 l (50%), FEV1 to 1.47 l (58%), DLCO was 27% and on 6MCT the distance travelled was only 330 m with a haemoglobin desaturation of 64%. This situation persisted for several months, which prevented her from the minimal activities of a normal life depending on the use of supplementary O2.

In this patient, given the imaging context, the differential diagnosis to consider was broad, but it was very important to rule out an acute exacerbation of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis, due to the high morbidity and mortality associated with it, especially considering the one-year evolution prior to hospitalisation in a patient who smoked. However, despite this time, the lung volumes were respected, the tomographic pattern was diffuse and not predominantly subpleural, there was no traction bronchiectasis, no apico-basal gradient and no pannalisation. There was no evidence of cardiogenic pulmonary oedema either, as there was no history of heart disease, an anodyne echocardiogram and the images did not show cardiomegaly, circulatory redistribution or pleural effusion; a viral pneumonia in general shows a bilateral patchy infiltrate and not as diffuse and uniform as in the current case and otherwise the viral panel was negative. There were no immunosuppression elements, no cysts or pneumothorax to consider a Pneumocystis jirovesii pneumonia and the HIV test was negative. Finally, when faced with a crazy paving pattern, we must also consider the diagnosis of diffuse alveolar haemorrhage, but in this patient there was never haemoptysis, progressive anaemisation, alterations in renal function and bronchoscopy ruled out alveolar bleeding.

Treatment

After the failure of LPT and obtaining the patient's informed consent and the agreement of the Local Ethics Committee of our hospital, which reviews case by case the alternatives proposed for patients requiring non-traditional measures, we decided to resort to the use of a product rarely used in the clinic for pulmonary lavage, but with strong evidence of its physical and chemical properties: excellent oxygen carrier, very low surface tension and very high propagation coefficient a perfluorocarbon: PFC (Perflubron) with which we performed weekly 4 bronchoscopic lobar lavages under local anaesthesia and with 28% supplementary O2 on an outpatient basis. Each lavage was performed by impacting the instrument into the lobar segment to be treated, instilling through the working channel, successive 20 ml aliquots of FFP until the aspirated fluid was clear. The first lobe to be flushed was the right upper lobe, followed by the middle lobe, left upper division (lingula and left upper lobe) and left lower lobe. An average of 250 ml of FFP was used during each procedure lasting an average of 60 min. The effect of FFP instillation is seen in the tube on the left showing the alveolar fluid aspirated after instillation of saline. The one on the right shows the fluid recovered immediately after FFP instillation. After completion of the lavage cycles, treatment was supplemented with 5 sessions of plasmapheresis with the intention of removing possible circulating anti-granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) antibodies, whose titration we were unable to perform, in order to ensure the absence of future disease outbreaks. The results were surprising and were obtained almost immediately. Gas exchange was normalised, with a PaO2 of 89.9 mmHg breathing room air, the alveolar-arterial PO2 difference was 19 mmhg; respiratory function indices improved to near normal values: FVC = 2.28 l (75%), FEV1 = 1.99 l (77%), DLCO increased to double its initial value reaching 55.6% and on TC6M the distance travelled increased to 429 m without haemoglobin desaturation at the end of the test. Chest CT scan showed almost total disappearance of alveolar infiltrates and among the biochemical results, LDH decreased to 154 IU/l.

During the pulmonary lavage procedure with FFP, each time the product was instilled, there was a significant increase in oximetry, which decreased when the instilled product was aspirated, but remained permanently above the baseline oximetry value of 92%, and the proteinaceous fluid that flooded the alveoli was easily aspirated and removed.

The patient was discharged home, asymptomatic after the fifth plasmapheresis session.

One month after discharge, she returned to her usual work, with no limitations. Seven months after the procedure, she was asymptomatic, maintaining normal exercise capacity, with no need for medication. Pulmonary function continued to improve with a FVC of 2.89 l (100%) and FEV1 of 2.27 l (92%) and a TC6M with a distance travelled of 465 m without haemoglobin desaturation. These values are maintained one year after FFP washout and plasmapheresis sessions.
