A 57-year-old man, ex-smoker for 28 years, with low-risk IgG kappa monoclonal gammopathy, and a totally active and independent life (he goes to the gym and exercises daily). Two weeks before his admission, he began with a dry cough and fever that he attributed to an upper respiratory catarrh. A few days later he suffered chest pain with atypical characteristics, radiating to the interscapular region and left scapula, for which he went to the emergency department and was diagnosed with a possible muscle contracture. He started treatment with analgesics, anti-inflammatory drugs and a muscle relaxant, as well as a cough suppressant. Given the persistence of cough and pain despite the prescribed treatment, he returned to the emergency department. At no time had she presented with dyspnoea.

Examination revealed a good general condition, BP 110/74 mmHg, HR 95 bpm, Ta 36 oC, baseline SpO2 93%, without tachypnoea or respiratory work. Cardiac auscultation was normal, and pulmonary auscultation showed bibasal crackles. The rest of the examination showed no pathological findings.

In the initial assessment, the complementary tests performed were as follows:
- Basic laboratory tests (blood count, biochemistry, coagulation), including 11,260 leukocytes/μl (91.3% neutrophils), CRP 547.9 mg/l, procalcitonin 1.69 ng/ml, fibrinogen 1,200 mg/dl, CK 124 U/L, ultrasensitive troponin T 15 ng/l, GOT 103 U/L and GPT 90 U/L.
- Chest X-ray showed bilateral pleural effusion, predominantly on the right, with pneumonic infiltrate in the left lower lobe.
- ECG: sinus tachycardia at 124 bpm, with no other pathological findings.
- Urine system without pathological findings.

Differential diagnosis
From a syndromic point of view, and after performing the basic complementary tests on arrival at the ED, the most likely diagnosis is respiratory sepsis due to community-acquired pneumonia in the left lower lobe (cough, fever, acute phase chest pain, focus of pneumonic condensation on chest X-ray, tachycardia), although this would not explain the existence of right pleural effusion and bibasal crackles on auscultation. The appearance of chest and interscapular pain, despite its atypical characteristics, makes it necessary to rule out the presence of cardiac pathology such as acute coronary syndrome or intrathoracic dissecting aortic aneurysm. The absence of electrical changes and elevated cardiac enzymes makes the first diagnosis improbable; for the second, we would require new complementary examinations (echocardiogram, chest CT scan), although it seems less likely due to its lower frequency and the absence of cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension or smoking. With regard to the bilateral pleural effusion with bibasal crackles, in addition to the possibility that the left pleural effusion could be parapneumonic or even an empyema, it suggests the possibility of left heart failure. This, ruling out the previously mentioned cardiovascular pathologies, could be framed in the context of infective endocarditis on native valve or other valvulopathies, pericardial involvement (pericarditis, pericardial effusion), or much less prevalent diseases with cardiopulmonary involvement (atrial myxoma, cardiac amyloidosis, connective tissue diseases). No murmurs or pericardial friction rub were observed on examination, and the ECG showed no signs of acute pericarditis. However, to completely rule out these conditions, an echocardiogram and other analytical tests would be necessary. Other diagnostic possibilities that could explain the presence of bilateral crackles include pulmonary fibrosis or carcinomatous lymphangitis, although in the absence of other symptoms and signs it seems reasonable to rule these out at least at the initial stage. The scapular pain could also be related to musculoskeletal lesions (contracture secondary to exercise, plasmacytoma-type lytic lesion or metastasis of unknown primary). The former had been treated unsuccessfully, while the latter can be ruled out as no bony lesions were seen on the chest X-ray. The elevated transaminases could be related to a wide range of possibilities: hepatic steatosis, chronic infection by hepatitis B or C virus, acute infection by other hepatotropic viruses (Q fever, cytomegalovirus, Epstein Barr virus, etc.), unrecognised enolism, low cardiac output due to heart failure, space-occupying lesions in the liver, etc. Further laboratory tests and abdominal ultrasound were necessary to clarify this.

Evolution
The patient was hospitalised in the Internal Medicine Unit. On admission, serology was performed for HIV, HBV, HCV, syphilis, CMV and EBV, all of which were negative. ANA and ANCA tests were negative, ruling out autoimmune pathology. Abdominal ultrasound showed signs of hepatic steatosis, which could explain the slight elevation of transaminases, in addition to the pleural effusion. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, reporting severe pericardial effusion with echocardiographic data of haemodynamic compromise. In view of the presence of pleural and pericardial effusion, diagnostic thoracentesis and pericardiocentesis were performed with placement of pericardial drainage and outflow of purulent material, whose respective cytobiochemical results were compatible with polymorphonuclear exudate without empyema characteristics (right pleural fluid: pH 7.43, 1. 102 leukocytes with 77% polymorphonuclear, glucose 100 mg/dl, protein 5.7 g/dl, LDH 631 U/L; pericardial fluid: pH 7.39, 31,729 leukocytes with 93% polymorphonuclear, glucose <2 mg/dl, protein 6.8 g/dl, LDH 2317 U/L).

ADA determination was normal and tumour markers and cultures (including mycobacteria) were negative. Cytological analysis showed only evidence of significant acute non-specific inflammation. Two blood culture samples isolated non-capsulated Haemophilus influenzae.

The patient received intravenous antibiotic treatment (ceftriaxone + levofloxacin) for 14 days, followed by a total of 4 weeks of oral treatment with levofloxacin. In addition, depletive treatment with furosemide and anti-inflammatory treatment with ibuprofen was carried out. The evolution was favourable from the clinical (disappearance of cough, chest and interscapular pain, and reduction of crepitant rales), analytical (normalisation of acute phase reactants), radiological (reduction of pleural effusion) and echocardiographic (at discharge, slight pericardial effusion with no evidence of pericarditis) points of view.

Final diagnosis
Finally, the patient was diagnosed with community-acquired left lower lobe pneumonia, Haemophilus influenzae bacteraemia and purulent pleuropericarditis with severe pericardial effusion and secondary heart failure.
