Clinical case. The patient was an 86-year-old woman who lived in a flat in the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires, where she lived with seven cats. She consulted for asthenia and adynamia associated with muscle tremors and disorientation. For 48 hours she had been receiving treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corisopradol for painful cervical osteoarthritis. She had no history of drug allergies, diabetes, hypertension or tuberculosis.

On physical examination she was lucid, responded to verbal commands and was able to move all four limbs. There were no signs of acute neurological or meningeal foci, no wounds or skin or soft tissue infections at the time of consultation. She presented with a soft, depressible and painless abdomen; axillary temperature of 37.3°C; dry skin and mucous membranes; and reported hyporexia. Electrocardiographic examination showed R1-R2 in 4 foci, with no signs of pump failure. On auscultation, there were no associated sounds. The patient was at that time under study due to the presence of mammary nodules, under surgical planning. Laboratory tests showed the following results: haemoglobin 10.8 mg/dl, haematocrit 32%, platelets 76,000/mm3, urea 101 mg/dl, creatinine 2.17mg/dl, sodium 134 mEq/l, potassium 3.4 mEq/l, chlorides 95.7mEq/l and leucocytes 5,200/mm3.

Initially, acute renal failure was diagnosed and admission to a medical clinic was indicated. 24 hours after admission, she was reactive but disoriented in time and with hypoacusis; she could move all four limbs, but had pain on cervical mobilisation and halocranial headache, neck stiffness and contracture of the neck muscles. He had a negative Babinski's sign and preserved osteotendinous reflexes, as well as ocular mobility. Tramadol and diazepam were prescribed. A computed axial tomography scan was performed, which showed no recent bleeding or deviation of midline structures. A lumbar puncture was performed and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) obtained was sent to the microbiology laboratory for culture and to the general laboratory for cytochemistry. Two blood cultures were also obtained. Glycaemia was undetectable, in contrast to a blood glucose of 110 mg/dl. Proteinorrache was 95mg/dl, chlorides 120 mEq/l and cells 30/mm3 with a predominance of neutrophils (11,000 leukocytes/mm3 in blood, 83% segmented). Empirical treatment was started with ceftriaxone (1g /12 h), ampicillin (3 g/6 h) and dexamethasone (8 mg/d), all intravenously for 14 days. The patient evolved favourably and after 8 days, once haemodynamic stability was achieved and she was afebrile, she was discharged with follow-up by the Infectious Diseases Department.
Microbiological studies. CSF: Gram stain showed few gram-negative coccobacilli. The sample was seeded on soy trypticase agar with 5% sheep blood, on chocolate agar and in a blood culture bottle (Bact/Alert, bioMérieux, Marcy l "Étoile, France). After 24 h of incubation, greyish-white colonies 1-2 mm in diameter, non haemolytic, with spermaceous odour were observed, which corresponded to gram-negative coccobacilli by Gram staining. The blood culture bottle was positive at 11.5 h, also with gram-negative coccobacilli. Blood: two blood cultures were obtained in standard Bact/Alert bottles. These were positive at 3.7 and 10.8 h and Gram staining also showed gram-negative coccobacilli. Subculture was performed on soy agartrypticase with 5% sheep blood and on chocolate agar, and similar colonies were obtained as in the CSF culture. Identification: blood culture and CSF isolates were identified as P. multocida by API 20NE, API 20E, by Vitek 1 (bioMérieux, Marcyl "Étoile, France) and by additional tests.
Antibiotic sensitivity was determined by the epsilometric method according to the manufacturer's recommendations (E test, AB-Biodisk, Solna, Sweden); Mueller Hinton agar with 5% sheep blood was used, inoculum was equivalent to McFarland turbidity standard 1; temperature, atmosphere and incubation time of 35°C, 5-10% CO2 and 48 h, respectively. The strain, according to CLSI cut-off points, was sensitive to the following antibiotics: penicillin 0.032 μg/ml, ceftriaxone 0.003 μg/ml, levofloxacin 0.025 μg/ml and tetracycline 0.032 μg/ml. Detection of β-lactamase by nitrocefin test was also performed, with negative result.
