A 47-year-old woman with a history of severe, colicky, hypogastric abdominal pain, of approximately 18 days' duration, consulted for a history of colicky, hypogastric abdominal pain. She was studied with stool culture, faecal leucocytes, serology for yersinia, and colonoscopy, all within normal limits. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis showed findings compatible with distal ileitis associated with dilatation of proximal bowel loops and uterine fibroids; given the good clinical evolution, she was discharged with symptomatic management and antibiotic treatment.

Patient consults again 10 days later, for a picture of similar characteristics to the previous one, with more intense pain, associated with marked abdominal distension, decreased gas elimination and constipation of 2 days of evolution, so new CT scan of abdomen and pelvis is performed.

Diagnosis:

Endometriosis of the distal ileum, a rare cause of intestinal obstruction.

The CT scan showed parietal thickening of the distal ileum, compatible with ileitis, with greater secondary dilatation of the proximal small intestine.

The abdominal pain coincided with the onset of the menstrual cycle in both consultations. When assessed by gynaecology, the patient reported severe dysmenorrhoea, disabling dyspareunia, chronic cyclical pelvic pain in relation to menstruation and the existence of a sister diagnosed with endometriosis. Given this history and the findings of the radiological studies, the diagnosis of intestinal endometriosis was suggested and it was decided to complement the study with computed tomography enteroclysis (CT), which showed eccentric massive thickening at the level of the distal ileum, associated with an adjacent cystic lesion, with haemorrhagic content and signs of partial obstruction of the small intestine, which corresponds as a first possibility to a focus of endometriosis.

Given these findings, surgical resolution was decided, which consisted of laparoscopic resection of the terminal ileum and cecum, with subsequent entero-colic anastomosis. Pathological anatomy showed a segment of ileum with multifocal endometriosis in the tunica muscularis propria and subserosa, associated with peri-ileal endometriomas.
