A 14-year-old male with a history of intrinsic asthma and atopic dermatitis, with no epidemiological history of interest. He came to the emergency department for progressive asthenia of 8 months and fever of up to 38oC for 7 days with intense night sweats. The anamnesis included retrosternal pain radiating to the right hypochondrium, also progressive, of 5 months' evolution. No weight loss or infectious focality. Examination revealed fever of 38oC, tachypnoea at 28 breaths per minute and hepatomegaly of 3cm. No other findings.
Initial complementary tests (PPCC) included progressive anaemia in the last month (haemoglobin 8.7mg/dL), leukocytosis (17,100/microL) with normal formula and thrombocytosis (961,000microL), elevated C-reactive protein (131.86mg/L) and altered coagulation (INR 1.5). The rest of the basic laboratory tests showed no findings, including renal function, ionogram, liver, iron and anaemia profiles. Chest X-ray showed a 4x5cm mass in the middle lobe, blurring the cardiac silhouette already present in projections 5 months earlier. He was admitted to Internal Medicine and a differential diagnosis was established between lymphoma, solid neoplasm and infectious cause. The PPCC battery was extended with immunoglobulins with fraction G (IgG) 1754mg/dL, with polyclonal gammaglobulinaemia in the proteinogram and a weakly positive Coombs test. Serology (including borrelia, chlamydia, coxiella, mycoplasma, ricketssia, cytomegalovirus, parvovirus B19, HIV, Ebstein-Barr and hepatitis) and IGRA for Mycobacterium tuberculosis were negative. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed the presence of moderate pericardial effusion and a 2.5x7x7cm diaphragm-dependent mass suggestive of infectious or inflammatory aetiology. Positron emission tomography (PET-CT) suggestive of mediastinal lymphoma with pericardial infiltration.
At this point, the possibility of IgG4 disease is suspected, with IgG G4 fraction above range (>154mg/dL) and biopsy of the mass showing a CD20-positive lymphoid infiltrate with 50% IgG4-positive plasma cells. The patient was treated with prednisone 0.5mg/kg/day with excellent clinical evolution, complete resolution of haemocyte alterations at two weeks and complete disappearance of the hypercapturing paradiaphragmatic mass at four months on control PET-CT scan. The definitive diagnosis was IgG4 disease with pericardial and pulmonary involvement.
