A 16-year-old male patient from the rural area of the city of Cali, Colombia, with chronic exposure to poultry droppings at home with a history of idiopathic cirrhosis, Child-Pugh Class B classification, documented 3 months prior to admission and awaiting a liver transplant at a level IV institution. At the time of consultation in the emergency department he presented with a clinical picture of 8 days evolution of fever, persistent emesis, headache, photophobia and tinnitus, so a lumbar puncture was performed obtaining cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with pleocytosis, hypoglycorrhachia, Chinese ink positive for fungal structures and positive molecular tests for Cryptococcus neoformans/gattii with automated multiplex polymerase chain reaction detection system nested by FilmArray TM Meningitis/Encephalitis panel (Biomérieux, FilmArrayTM 2. 0, Marcy-L "étoile, France), a method for amplification, detection and analysis of nucleic acids in a closed system. The results obtained from the cerebrospinal fluid sample.

The culture reported growth of Cryptococcus gattii sensitive to liposomal amphotericin B, 5-fluocytocin and fluconazole. A cranial computed axial tomography was performed, where no cryptococcomas or signs of cerebral oedema were identified. Antifungal treatment with liposomal amphotericin B and 5-fluocytocin was started, with a good initial clinical evolution due to resolution of the headache, tolerance of the oral route and resolution of the other symptoms. Ten days later he presented clinical deterioration with signs of sepsis and gastrointestinal bleeding and was transferred to the intensive care unit. A CSF cytochemical control was performed, which persisted with hypoglycorrhachia, pleocytosis and fungal structures in the Chinese ink study. Twenty-four days after hospitalisation, he presented neurological deterioration, renal failure requiring dialysis, ventilatory failure of central origin and coagulopathy with massive alveolar bleeding, leading to the patient's death.

Cryptococcus spp. are round or oval yeasts measuring 20 μm in diameter. C. neoformans has a universal distribution and can be easily found in the environment mainly in soil contaminated with bird faeces and C. gattii has been isolated from flowers and trees such as eucalyptus, ficus and almond trees.

C. gattii was initially thought to be a subtype of C. neoformans, but is now recognised as a single species that is divided into four molecular types: VGI, VGII; VGIII and VGIV. Strains VGI and VGII have an endemic distribution in Australia, VGII and VGIII in South America, and strain VGIV in the United States, which is associated with meningoencephalitis with an aggressive course.
