A 45-year-old man with a history of severe smoking, severe obesity (BMI 37.8) and multiple herniated discs. He presented with high fever (for which blood cultures were taken) and two days after the fever, he developed purplish lesions on the left lower limb. Blood cultures indicated the presence of S. Aureus resistant to cloxacillin (the first drug prescribed) and he was treated with vancomycin. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed the presence of filiform vegetations on the aortic valve. The patient also presented abdominal pain which led to an ultrasound scan indicating the presence of splenic infarctions and a renal infarction. Valve replacement was scheduled, which took place one week after the onset of the symptoms, and gentamicin was added to the treatment. The day before surgery (day 6 with antibiotic treatment), it was decided to readjust the treatment by withdrawing vancomycin and adding daptomycin at a dose of 3.5mg/kg/day (i.e. the patient was currently being treated with daptomycin and gentamicin). After an adequate evolution, he restarted with fever and an abdominal CT scan was performed, showing splenic abscesses. Drainage of the largest one was performed under ultrasound guidance, obtaining samples for culture in which Serratia marcescens was isolated. The patient again presented an adequate evolution until 21 days after treatment, when he began to develop fever, dyspnoea and chest pain, for which reason a chest CT scan was performed, showing a patchy ground-glass pulmonary infiltrate, greater in the right upper lobe, right middle lobe and left lower lobe. Four days later he presented with increased dyspnoea and respiratory failure that did not improve with oxygen therapy. Chest X-ray showed an interstitial pattern consistent with the findings observed in the CT scan of previous days, so bronchoscopy was requested and bronchoalveolar lavage was performed, indicating polymorphic inflammatory cellularity with slightly more than 10% eosinophils. On the other hand, an exponential increase in blood eosinophil counts was also observed at that time. Due to this, it was decided to withdraw daptomycin and start treatment with corticosteroids, which improved the condition.
