Reason for consultation
An 83-year-old male patient presented with fever of one day's evolution with no apparent source.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
Personal history of: arterial hypertension. Type II diabetes mellitus. Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS). Benign prostatic hypertrophy. Polycystic kidney disease. Gouty arthritis. Alzheimer's disease.
The patient lives at home with his wife and daughter. He is dependent for some activities of daily living although he leads an active life, and always comes to the health centre accompanied by one of his daughters.

The patient comes to the clinic with his daughter because of a one-day fever of 38-39°C. They report cough with occasional whitish expectoration. There is no other apparent focal point in the anamnesis. The only thing that the daughter, the main caregiver, says is that she finds that he is more forgetful and occasionally disorientated (for example, he forgets that he has had dinner), especially at night and coinciding with the fever. On examination, there was nothing remarkable and the patient was in good general condition, although he was found to be in poor health. Considering him to be a fragile patient, we started him on amoxicillin 750mg prophylactically.
The following day we called home, at the request of the family because the patient remained feverish. Once again, no focal point was found. The patient continued to be in good general condition, haemodynamically stable and with an unremarkable examination. We reassured the family and explained that the process would last several days with sustained fever, but that they should be alert to any new symptoms that might appear and guide the diagnosis. The patient accompanies us out of the house to say goodbye.

We received a new home visit a day later, as the patient had worsened considerably. The family told us that the patient had woken up well, but that he had become unwell and went to rest in his room, where he was later found to be disorientated and with generalised rigidity.

On examination, the patient is disoriented in time and space, with a tendency to sleep and responds inconsistently to our questions.

Examination (difficult due to lack of cooperation):
Vitals: BP 129/73, HR 117lpm, SatO2 90%, T 38.6o, blood glucose 137.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation: No murmurs, rhythmic. VCM without added sounds.
Abdomen globular, no masses, not painful, no peritonism.
Lower limbs: no oedema or signs of thrombosis.
Neurological: bilateral reactive myosis. Oculomotor movements apparently preserved. Erasure of the left nasolabial fold. Rest of cranial nerves not assessable. Great gait instability. No noticeable loss of sensibility. Generalised loss of strength. Kernig and Burdzinsky not assessable due to voluntary defence, although there is apparent rigidity.

It was decided to send the patient to the hospital emergency department for additional tests.
On arrival, the tests performed included the following:
CBC: CRP 0.9mg/dL, leukocytes 10330/μL with 67% neutrophils and 17.9% lymphocytes. Platelets 186000/μL. Urine system with proteinuria.

Chest X-ray: poor technique. Cardiothoracic index within normal limits. Free parenchyma without congestion or condensation.
Cranial CT: prominence of grooves, fissures and cisterns with moderate dilatation of the ventricular system in relation to corticosubcortical atrophy and/or senile involution. Adequate differentiation of grey-white matter. Posterior fossa without findings. No signs of intracranial haemorrhage. No mass effect. Rest of the study with no findings.

During his stay in the emergency department, the patient showed neurological deterioration, becoming progressively drowsy, waking up only with painful stimuli. It was therefore decided to perform a lumbar puncture, obtaining a slightly cloudy fluid with the following biochemistry: leukocytes 12/μL (100% mononuclear), glucose 77mg/dL, protein 70.9mg/dL.
Gram stain is negative.
The PCRs study detects positive PCR for herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1).

Family and community approach
Nuclear family structure. The patient lives with his wife and one of his two daughters.
His family life cycle, according to the WHO model modified by De la Revilla, is stage IV or -contraction‖ (from the time the first child leaves home until the last one does).
The youngest daughter lives with her parents, being the main carer of both, especially the father, who needs more attention as he is more fragile than his wife.

Clinical Judgement
Meningoencephalitis due to HSV-1. The differential diagnosis at the beginning of the process was acute confusional syndrome. Subsequently, other infections of the central nervous system had to be taken into account and, with the biochemical values of the CSF, other viral infections, very early bacterial infections, aborted infections or tuberculous meningoencephalitis had to be considered. Other diagnoses include autoimmune, metabolic, toxic or ischaemic encephalitis.

Action plan and evolution
The patient is admitted to the Infectious Diseases Department and treatment with Acyclovir iv (10mg/kg every 8 hours) is started.

Evolution
The patient remained disoriented throughout the admission, with incoherent responses to questions, but at the beginning he began to eat crushed food and was haemodynamically stable, without fever.
On the sixth day the patient showed significant deterioration, not opening his eyes and only localising painful stimuli. Oliguria with diuresis of 100cc in 12 hours despite intensive fluid therapy. Urgent blood tests showed creatinine levels of 5.6mg/dL. This was possibly due to acute tubular necrosis caused by acyclovir, so treatment was readjusted, reducing it to a daily dose.
Amoxicillin 875mg/clavulanic acid 125mg was added as aspiration could not be ruled out, as he started again with fever, cough and increased secretions.
Progressive deterioration that finally required sedation of the patient, who died on the eleventh day of admission.
