We present the case of a 41-year-old black male, born in Nigeria, who had been living in Spain since the age of 24. He travelled to Nigeria on an almost annual basis and the last trip he had made was recently, returning 10 days before the time of consultation. She worked with her brother in a shop. She had been in a stable relationship for 4 years. He had no known drug allergies. He was a regular cannabis user. He had no medical history of interest and was not undergoing regular treatment.
She consulted in February 2017 for ten days of dyspnoea, cough and whitish expectoration. She also reported pleuritic pain on her left side. He also presented with asthenia, non-thermometric febrile sensation and unquantified weight loss. She also had non-pruritic and non-painful skin lesions that had started the previous month while she was in her own country. On examination he was in good general condition, conscious and oriented. Blood pressure was 108/75 mmHg, heart rate 80 beats per minute and oxygen saturation was 90% when breathing room air. He was afebrile. She had non-painful lymphadenopathies between one and two centimetres in diameter, with smooth borders and not adhered to deep planes at cervical, axillary and inguinal level. He had skin lesions on the trunk, upper and lower extremities consisting of hyperpigmented papules about 5 millimetres in diameter that affected the soles of the feet and palms. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was rhythmic, without murmurs or cardiac friction rubs, with bibasal rhonchi. The abdomen was soft, depressible, without masses or megaliths and not painful. The lower limbs showed no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis. Blood tests showed a haemoglobin of 16.3 g/dl, 7,820 leukocytes per microlitre with 3,430 neutrophils per microlitre, 3,110 lymphocytes per microlitre, 1,060 monocytes per microlitre, 120 eosinophils per microlitre and 263,000 platelets per microlitre. Coagulation was within normal limits. Basic biochemistry, C-reactive protein, liver profile and proteinogram were within normal. Legionella and pneumococcal antigenuria were negative. Chest X-ray showed a cardiac silhouette within the limits of normality, with a diffuse bilateral interstitial infiltrate, more marked in the lung bases, without mediastinal widening with free costophrenic sinuses. The electrocardiogram was normal.
With the initial suspicion of pulmonary tuberculosis, Mantoux test and sputum smear test were negative. In addition, PCR of nasopharyngeal exudate was performed, which was positive for influenza A non-H1N1 virus. Subsequently, a fibrobronchoscopy and a mycobacterial blood culture were requested. During the fibrobronchoscopy procedure, there was a significant hypoxaemia event that prevented the test from being carried out correctly, so it was interrupted and only samples could be taken by BAS for microbiology. Bronchopulmonary structures were described as normal. The following microbiological results were received: BAS culture for bacteria and fungi and staining for Pneumocystis jirovecii and mycobacteria negative. HIV, HBV, HCV and syphilis serologies were negative. The proteinogram was normal. Pending culture in Löwestein medium.
Treatment with oseltamivir and levofloxacin was started as atypical bacterial pneumonia could not be ruled out. To complete the study of polyadenopathic syndrome with skin lesions, a CT scan of the chest and abdomen, biopsy of adenopathy and biopsy of the skin lesions were requested. Despite having started the correct treatment for influenza, on the fifth day of admission he presented clinical deterioration with increased dyspnoea and increased respiratory work, and was assessed by the intensive care department, which decided to admit him to the intensive care unit. The poor clinical condition required orotracheal intubation and haemodynamic support with vasoactive drugs.
Chest CT scan showed bilateral diffuse alveolar infiltrates in both lung fields with air bronchograms, condensation and areas of ground glass in relation to respiratory distress. In the left axillary region there were lymphadenopathies between 9.5 and 11.5 mm in short axis. There were no hilar or mediastinal adenopathies. Abdominal CT scan showed hepatomegaly with smooth contours and homogeneous density. Adenopathies of between 9 and 21 mm were observed at para-aortic, paracaval, interaortocaval and in both primitive iliac arteries. In addition, multiple lytic lesions were observed in the dorsolumbar spine, ribs, scapulae, clavicles and pelvis, the largest being 14 mm in the right iliac blade. 

Differential diagnosis
We are dealing with a patient with no previous data of immunosuppression with pulmonary infiltrates, negative smear microscopy, a positive flu test and a poor clinical evolution despite having started the correct treatment. The presence of lymphadenopathy, multifocal lytic bone lesions and skin lesions lead us to question a series of possible diagnoses.
Among the autoimmune diseases, sarcoidosis should be considered first and foremost. The skin lesions in sarcoidosis are very varied. The most common form is erythema nodosum. Involvement in the form of papules is also common but typically has a different distribution to that of our patient, extending over the face rather than the trunk and extremities. Bone involvement usually consists of arthritis or bone cysts in the phalanges of the hands and feet, which was not present in our patient. In addition, the absence of the typical hilar lymphadenopathy would be against the diagnosis of sarcoidosis.
A disseminated fungal infection should be considered. Histoplasmosis is the most frequent cause of respiratory fungal infection. The duboissi variety is the most common with bone and skin involvement. Negative culture results obtained by BAS would contradict this diagnosis. In addition, the capsulatum variety is endemic in some countries in South America and the United States and the duboisii variety in Central Africa, neither being endemic in Nigeria.  Another cause of disseminated mycosis is blastomycosis. Bone involvement is typically described as lytic lesions as in our case. The skin lesions of blastomycosis do not resemble those of our case as they are typically described as warty with irregular borders and grey or violet in colour along with microabscesses. It is also endemic in parts of the United States and Canada. Disseminated cryptococcosis presents with bone involvement with lytic forms, as in the case of our patient. Cutaneous involvement may be in the form of papules but also plaques or ulcers. In favour of the diagnosis would be the fact that the infection has a worldwide distribution, but against it would be the absence of meningoencephalitis, which is the most frequent involvement in cryptococcosis. With regard to tuberculosis, we know that a negative smear microscopy does not rule out the presence of pulmonary tuberculosis, as we are still awaiting culture in Löwestein's medium. However, it would be surprising if, given such extensive pulmonary involvement, the smear test was negative. It would be unlikely that our patient had extrapulmonary disseminated tuberculosis. Against this possibility, our patient has no HIV infection, no dissociated colostasis, no persistent fever, and no lymph nodes with a hypodense centre on imaging tests suggestive of necrosis. Bacillary angiomatosis would be another diagnosis to consider, caused by Bartonella henselae. This gram-negative bacillus is endemic worldwide. Its forms of bone involvement include lytic lesions as in our case. Against the diagnosis would be the fact that the patient does not have HIV infection, this being the group of patients in which this condition is most frequently described. Also against the diagnosis is the fact that the skin lesions start as red or purple vesicles and progressively spread. This was not the form of skin involvement in our patient. Another diagnostic possibility is Kaposi's sarcoma. Human herpes virus 8 is the causative agent and is the most common neoplasm in untreated HIV patients but also appears in other immunosuppressed states. At the cutaneous level, the presence of a multicentric vascular tumour produces purplish or red papules or macules that may coalesce and form plaques or nodules. Occasionally the nodules may penetrate soft tissue and invade bone. Negativity for HIV makes this diagnosis less likely, together with the fact that the skin lesions presented by our patient do not resemble those typically described in Kaposi's sarcoma. Given the polyadenopathic picture, we might think that it could be a lymphoproliferative syndrome and that this would not be ruled out until an adenopathic biopsy was available. In this case, a series of diagnoses could be considered. Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a multi-organ proliferative disorder of histiocytes that can affect bone, skin, lung and other organs such as spleen and liver. It can affect any age group but unlike in our case, it is more typically diagnosed in childhood. Hairy cell leukaemia is a rare lymphoproliferative process of B cells of the blood, bone marrow and spleen. Bone marrow biopsy would show fibrosis. In peripheral blood the leukaemic cells would show cytoplasmic projections that look like "hairy cells". In favour of this diagnosis is the fact that it is more frequently described in males than in females with a 4:1 ratio. Although it is considered uncommon, individuals have been described with the presence of lytic bone lesions and skin involvement, but unlike in our case, the most frequent skeletal involvement is usually in the femoral head or neck and other affected areas are the tibia, vertebrae and humerus.
Castelman's disease or also called angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia in its multicentric presentation is another possibility. Here human herpes virus 8 has been described as the aetiological agent of the disease in both HIV-infected and uninfected patients. In this case the lytic bone lesions are not as frequent and the skin lesions do not closely resemble those presented by our patient as they usually present as violaceous papules7. Adult T-cell leukaemia is related to human lymphotropic virus type 1. Clinically, it may present as lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, lytic bone lesions accompanied by hypercalcaemia and skin lesions that may vary widely. The incidence of this condition is higher in patients who come from areas where HTLV1 is endemic, as is the case in West Africa, where our patient came from8. A lymphoproliferative disorder associated with this virus cannot be ruled out in our patient.

Evolution
During his stay in the ICU he presented progressive clinical deterioration. It was decided to add methylprednisolone treatment due to the suspicion of respiratory distress syndrome. Antibiotic therapy was modified to levofloxacin and ceftriaxone. Oseltamivir was discontinued after 5 days of treatment.  Several biopsies of the skin lesions were performed and samples were sent for microbiological and pathological examination. Cultures for fungi and mycobacteria were negative. PAS histochemical technique was performed and the report described a chronic perivascular and interstitial inflammatory infiltrate and no fungi were identified. HIV serology was again requested and was negative again. As a complication associated with mechanical ventilation, he presented bilateral pneumonia, with isolation of extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae in the BAS and blood culture. For this reason, antibiotic therapy was modified and amikacin and ertapenem were started. Laboratory tests showed a progressive increase in leukocytosis, reaching a maximum of 77,920 leukocytes with 70,360 neutrophils, 4900 lymphocytes, 5610 monocytes and 0 eosinophils. There was progressive thrombopenia with platelets reaching a value of 59,000 and progressive anaemia with haemoglobin reaching a value of 100g/L.
On the twentieth day of admission to the ICU he presented a significant haemodynamic deterioration requiring high doses of vasoactive drugs and extracorporeal renal depuration due to renal function failure. A chest X-ray was performed showing a cavity in the right middle lobe.
Galactomannan was requested in blood with a result of 4.41 U/ml and, given the high suspicion of a disseminated fungal infection, empirical treatment with liposomal amphotericin B and voriconazole was started. Two days after starting antifungal treatment and 23 days after admission to the ICU, he died. A necropsy was requested with the following report: Existence of bilateral cavitated necrotising pneumonia with positive culture for Aspergillus fumigatus and extensive associated diffuse alveolar damage. In the analysis of the mediastinal adenopathies, the following microscopic description was made: Lymph nodes with infiltration by a diffuse lymphoproliferative process, which does not completely erase the lymph node architecture, made up of cells of different sizes, with a predominance of medium-sized cells and the presence of large elements, somewhat pleomorphic. The IHC study showed a CD3(+)/CD5+/ CD7-, TCRbetaF1+, CD4+/CD8-, CD43(+), CD25+, PD.1-, CD56-/granzyme B-, TdT-/CD1a-, EBER-, CD30+- and S100- phenotype, with no accompanying follicular dendritic cells. A T rearrangement study was carried out and clonality was detected. A diagnosis of adult T-cell lymphoma/leukaemia was established. Three weeks later a report was received from the Carlos III Institute with a positive result for HTLV1.

Final diagnosis
Severe bilateral influenza virus pneumonia. Bilateral acute necrotising pneumonia, cavitated by Aspergillus fumigatus with signs of angioinvasion. Adult T-cell lymphoma/leukaemia associated with HTLV1 infection.
