A 51 year old male patient with a history of Takayasu's vasculitis and analytical criteria for antiphospholipid syndrome on treatment with prednisone 5 mg/day and azathioprine 150 mg/day was admitted to our hospital for left lumbosciatica refractory to medical treatment secondary to a herniated disc L5-S1, deciding on intervention by Traumatology which performed a left L5 hemilaminectomy with foraminotomy S1 and discectomy L5-S1.
Seventy-two hours after surgery, the patient began to experience severe pain and swelling of the left lower limb distal to the knee, and pretibial skin lesions of a purplish colour and some isolated lesions of an ecchymotic appearance were observed. The picture extended to the contralateral leg where he also developed purpuric lesions with no traumatic antecedent that evolved into necrotic plaques and phlyctenas. At the same time the patient started with a sero-bloody exudate at the level of the surgical wound as well as a progressive deterioration of the general condition with hypotension (90/60 mmHg), oliguria and analytical deterioration with acute renal insufficiency (creatinine 1. 7 mg/dl), plateletopenia (70,000 platelets/mm3), anaemia (haemoglobin 10 mg/dl), coagulopathy and elevated acute phase reactants (C-reactive protein 244 mg/L and procalcitonin 11.81 ng/ml). An assessment by Vascular Surgery was requested, blood cultures and cultures of the surgical wound were performed and coverage with broad-spectrum antibiotherapy with cefepime and linezolid was started 24 hours after the onset of symptoms, with the decision to increase coverage to imipenem and linezolid 24 hours after the start of treatment due to the poor evolution of the symptoms. A Gram-negative bacillus (GNB) was detected in aspirates from the skin lesion and the surgical wound.

Differential diagnosis
The patient's general condition deteriorated with a recent lumbar operation and an increase in size of the lower limbs together with ecchymotic, purpuric lesions with necrotic areas. Given these findings, we considered two possible origins, one infectious and the other autoimmune. The patient presented in the context of autoimmunity with vasculitis of large vessels (Takayasu). In view of the deterioration of the general condition, the analytical alterations (anaemia, thrombopenia, coagulopathy, renal failure) and the purpuric lesions, the presence of haemolytic-uraemic syndrome (HUS) or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and small vessel vasculitic involvement (hypersensitivity vasculitis or microscopic polyangiitis) should be ruled out.
The presence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) should also be ruled out as the patient presents with analytical criteria of an antiphospholipid syndrome. Alternatively, an infectious origin of the condition should be considered, in which case it could be severe sepsis with multi-organ failure secondary to infection of the surgical wound, with exudate in which GNB is detected, and the lesions in the lower limbs could be caused by distant soft tissue involvement.

Evolution
The patient's clinical evolution was torpid, requiring urgent surgical cleaning of the lumbar wound 72 hours after the onset of symptoms and subsequent admission to the ICU with the need for haemodynamic support. He was assessed by Vascular Surgery who ruled out the presence of DVT, the presence of haemolysis was ruled out analytically (normal haptoglobin, negative coombs test and smear without schistocytes) and all cultures (blood cultures, culture of the surgical wound and of the phlyctenas of the left lower limb) grew multisensitive Pseudomonas aeruginosa. With targeted antibiotic treatment and the remaining measures, the patient showed a clear improvement with resolution of the systemic symptoms and disappearance of the exudate from the surgical wound and the lesions on the right lower limb. However, after his return to the Infectious Diseases ward, the lesions on the left leg increased in size with extensive areas of necrosis and repeated positive cultures for Pseudomonas aeruginosa with the same resistance profile. After more than 15 days of targeted antibiotic treatment with no substantial change in the leg lesions, it was decided to perform an intensive surgical debridement of the lesions exposing extensive loss of substance, requiring two further debridements in the operating theatre. In view of the loss of substance and the insufficient response to treatment on the ward, it was decided to start closed vacuum therapy (VAC therapy) for all lesions. After two weeks of VAC therapy and continued targeted antibiotic therapy, wound cultures were negative and abundant granulation tissue appeared. Finally, the patient was assessed by the Plastic Surgery Department of the referral hospital and, after three months of hospitalisation, the patient was transferred for skin autografting, with a good subsequent outcome.

Final diagnosis
1. Severe sepsis with multiple organ failure secondary to early infection of the surgical wound by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in an immunosuppressed patient.
2. Necrotising fasciitis in the left lower limb due to metastatic implantation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
