Anamnesis
This is a 74-year-old male patient with a personal history of diabetes mellitus, ischaemic stroke in the middle cerebral artery, bilateral carotid occlusion, chronic cerebrovascular disease, Binswanger's encephalopathy. Dependent for all activities of daily living, double incontinent, permanent bladder catheter.
He presented to the Emergency Department for fever up to 38.5oC and urethrorrhagia after routine bladder catheter replacement.

Physical examination
Blood pressure 80/40 mmHg. Temperature 38.3oC. Superficial tachypnoea. Scrotal region oedematous and painful with crepitus on palpation. Ecchymosis of the penis with cyanotic glans penis and signs of ischaemia. The rest of the examination was of no interest.

Complementary tests
- Laboratory tests: creatinine 0.47 mg/dl, urea 52 mg/dl, sodium 143 mEq/l, potassium 2.8 mEq/l, haemoglobin 9.3 g/dl, haematocrit 27.9%, platelets 46,000 μl, leukocytes 3,610 μl (neutrophils 89.3%), INR 1. Cephalin time 32.2 s, prothrombin time 11.60 s, derived fibrinogen > 740 mg/dl.
- Abdominal-pelvic CT scan: enlarged prostate with small collections inside. Perineal collection with abundant gas in its interior measuring 25 x 56 mm and continuing along the urethral tract. The gaseous component dissects the subcutaneous cellular tissue planes of the penis. Bubbles in the course of the femoral and external iliac veins, findings compatible with Fournier's gangrene.
- Cultures (blood cultures, urine cultures, exudate culture): Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Diagnosis
Definitive histopathology indicates necrotising fasciitis with extensive ischaemic-haemorrhagic phenomena involving the bulbar urethra, prepuce, corpus spongiosum, penile urethra, glans penis and distal ends of the corpora cavernosa. Fournier's gangrene secondary to urological manipulation with bladder catheterisation.

Treatment
After degloving of the penis, massive necrosis of the urethra and corpus spongiosum is observed, with periurethral purulent collection at bulbar level. Surgical debridement and subtotal urethrectomy is performed up to the level of the urethral bulb, with partial associated section of the corpora cavernosa, leaving a penile stump of about 3 cm. Finally, a catheterised perineal urethrostomy was performed with a Foley 20 Ch bladder catheter. In agreement with the Infectious Diseases Service, initial intravenous treatment was performed with imipenem and metronidazole, which was adjusted after the antibiogram results, being changed to imipenem and amikacin.

Evolution
After surgery, the patient remained haemodynamically stable in the ICU for the first 48 hours, after which he was extubated and transferred to conventional hospitalisation, where he evolved favourably with local wound dressings that did not require a new surgical revision. He was discharged 15 days later.
