This is a 38-year-old patient admitted to internal medicine for diarrhoea and oedema. As AP: morbid obesity operated in 2001 by Scopinaro technique (modified DBP) in private (initial weight 145 Kg, BMI 47.3 Kg/m2), reaching a weight of 75 Kg, follow-up in private clinic with erratic supplementation, in January 2017 he was reintervened (weight 104 Kg, BMI 34 Kg/m2) due to weight gain and malabsorption undergoing gastric bypass, with weight loss over the course of a year and a half of about 30 Kg, weight loss percentage (WLP) 28.8%. Smoker of half a packet a day and moderate alcohol consumption. No known drug allergies. No habitual treatment. He has not been supplemented with water-soluble vitamins or iron at any time.
Trip to the coast of Indonesia in April/18 in a non-rural area, on a scheduled cruise, a week later he began with liquid diarrhoea that did not respect rest, he was treated with antibiotics that he did not remember and the symptoms self-limited, but in June/18 he began with progressive oedema of the lower extremities, scrotum and face. Weight loss of 5 kg in 5-6 months. Intake and appetite preserved, no nausea or vomiting, 3-4 daily steatorrheic stools, without pathological products.
On 27/11/18 assessment by the nutrition unit was requested, and the examination revealed: current weight 72.4 kg (without oedema 67.3 kg), height 1.75 m, BMI 23.6 kg/m2. PP in one year and 4 months 28.8% and in the last 5 months 6%. General condition preserved. Pallor of skin and mucous membranes. Oedema up to the knees without fovea.
Laboratory tests: renal function normal, total protein 3.7 g/dl, albumin 2.2 g/dl, prealbumin 8 mg/dl, low sideremia, vitamin B12 and folic acid normal, selenium, vitamin A, D and E deficiency. Haemoglobin 9.8 g/dl, total lymphocytes 2700 and prothrombin time prolongation.

In our patient we requested a stool parasite test (Cryptosporidium and Giardia), stool culture and Clostridium difficile toxin, all of which were negative. Celiac disease was ruled out by performing anti-transglutaminase and anti-endomysial antibodies, which were negative.
A urease test was performed, which suggested Helicobacter pylori gastritis.
An abdominal ultrasound scan showed a liver of normal size, chortonicity and echogenicity, with areas of focal steatosis and several simple cysts in the LHI.
A thoraco-abdominal-pelvic CT scan showed post-surgical changes after Billroth II gastrectomy. Numerous mesenteric lymph nodes of oval morphology and up to 7 mm short axis, non-specific. Small bowel loops and colic frame of normal calibre and parietal thickness. No notable alterations in the mesointestinal tract. Small amount of free peritoneal fluid in the pelvis. The rest of the examination showed no significant alterations.
An oesophago-gastro-duodenal transit with barium was requested: subtotal gastrectomy with good passage of contrast through the anastomotic mouth without visualising G-E reflux. Dilatation of the jejunum and ileum loops with fragmentation and flocculation of the contrast, all in accordance with an inflammatory intestinal process and intestinal malabsorption.

In addition, upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed:
- Gastroscopy: reduced size stomach (approx. 1/3 remaining) due to previous bariatric surgery, without lesions. Gastrointestinal surgical anastomosis of reduced calibre, but sufficient for passage of the endoscope without difficulty and without lesions. About 25 cm of small intestine of normal appearance is explored, from which biopsies are taken: small intestine mucosa without alterations, negative for coeliac disease.
- Colonoscopy: small intestine (ileum) mucosa without significant morphological alterations. Colon: colonic mucosa with minimal non-specific inflammatory changes in the lamina propria. Rectum: rectal mucosa with minimal non-specific inflammatory changes in lamina propria.

Finally, a hydrogen (H2) and methane (CH4) breath test was performed for the study of bacterial overgrowth (SCBI) with lactulose/lactitol with a positive result. The patient was discharged in December/18.

Our patient received treatment for SCBI with an excellent response to rifaximin 600 mg every 8 hours for 14 days, and for H. pylori he required an initial eradication therapy with OCAM quadruple therapy (omeprazole/clarithromycin/ amoxicillin and metronidazole) without achieving eradication and subsequently with Pylera 140/125/125 mg (potassium bismuth subcitrate/metronidazole and tetracycline hydrochloride) achieving eradication. Therapy was completed on an outpatient basis in March/19.

In our case, from admission, nutritional support adjusted to his daily energy-protein requirements (1900 Kcal and 98 g of protein) was established with hyperproteic and normocaloric oligomeric oral nutritional supplements and a protein module/12h, which provided 400 Kcal and 95 g of protein in addition to the oral diet. In addition, supplementation with iron proteinsuccinylate 800 mg/12h, calcifediol 0.266 mg/15 days, phytomenadione 10 mg oral/3 days until correction of vitamin K deficiency (normalisation of prothrombin time), vitamin A 5000 IU (retinol palmitate) and vitamin E 10 mg (dl-alpha-tocopheryl acetate) daily and then 3 days a week until correction of serum vitamin A and E deficiencies. In addition to a multivitamin and mineral complex. After 6 months, the anthropometric evolution, nutritional parameters and micronutrients have been excellent.
