Anamnesis
An 8-month-old male presented to the dermatology department for investigation of congenital lymphoedema of the hands. His mother's obstetric history was notable for polyhydramnios without gestational diabetes. Parents without consanguinity. In his personal history, he was born preterm at 36 weeks of gestation by induction of labour with a birth weight of 4470 g and a height of 50 cm. His family history included an older brother born with transposition of the great vessels. Since birth he presented with mild and recurrent episodes of upper respiratory tract infections and otitis externa. In addition, at 7 months of age he began to have frequent episodes of stools with mucus and undigested substances.

Physical examination
Physical examination revealed segmental and asymmetric lymphoedema predominantly in both hands, cervical region, right lower limb, pubis and hydrocele. The feet were respected. Palpation revealed an adenopathic conglomerate in the right axilla.

Complementary examinations
Laboratory tests showed lymphocyte levels at the lower limit of normality, hypoproteinaemia with hypoalbuminaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia (IgG 254 mg/dL, IgA 13 mg/dL). All other laboratory tests including cholesterol, triglycerides, coagulation, immunoglobulin E, thyroid function, ceruloplasmin, serology for hepatitis C, hepatitis B, human immunodeficiency virus, syphilis, toxoplasma, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, varicella zoster virus and rubella were normal or negative. Lymphocyte subpopulation study showed an abnormal increase in virgin T and B lymphocytes. Stool digestion study was altered with increased cellulose, starch and muscle fibres, although faecal alpha-1-antitrypsin levels were normal. Chest X-ray was normal. X-ray of the spine and lower limbs revealed no dysmetria. Abdominal ultrasound and echocardiogram showed mild peritoneal and pericardial free fluid respectively. A lymph node ultrasound revealed bilateral axillary and inguinal adenopathies, predominantly on the right.
A non-contrast MRI of the skull was performed and was normal. MRI of the trunk and extremities showed arthrosarcomatous dilatations of superficial lymphatic vessels in the upper limbs, right lower limb and cervical region. The thoracic duct was dilated and there was a discrete amount of ascites. In addition, there was mucosal oedema mainly at the level of the jejunum and the presence of ectatic vessels in the wall of the jejunum.
A karyotype was performed and was normal. The FLT4 (VEGFR-3) gene mutation test for Milroy's disease was negative.
A skin biopsy of the leg revealed lymphangiectasias of superficial vessels. Histological examination of a right axillary lymph node showed a lymph node entirely replaced by vascular channels of lymphatic nature, in some of which there were intraluminal lymphoid aggregates that did not form secondary follicles. These channels had endothelium with positive immunostaining for D2-40. This tissue alternated with areas of mature fatty tissue. The ganglion capsule was preserved. The dense stroma consisted mostly of spindle cells corresponding to smooth muscle tissue.
In view of the triad of diarrhoea, hypoproteinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia, an oral endoscopy was performed where dilated and pearly villi with a patchy pattern were observed in the duodenum, with the rest of the examination being normal. A biopsy of the intestinal mucosa was taken with histology compatible with intestinal lymphangiectasia.

Diagnosis
According to the ISSVA classification of 2014, the patient had a primary generalised lymphatic anomaly with lymphoedema and intestinal lymphangiectasia, and so we are dealing with a lymphangiectasia-lymphoedema syndrome or Hennekam syndrome.

Treatment
We started treatment with oral sirolimus at a dose of 0.8 mg/m2 every 24 hours, maintaining drug levels in the blood between 5-7 ng/mL.

Evolution
The patient has been on treatment with oral sirolimus for 2 months with remission of diarrhoea and slight improvement in cutaneous lymphoedema.
