A 68-year-old woman with hypertensive heart disease and pulmonary sarcoidosis on treatment with corticosteroids (20 mg of prednisone per day). The patient reported asthenia of 3-4 months' duration, and since the previous week gait instability with deviation to the right; she presented right hemiparesis (right upper limb strength 4/5 and right lower limb strength 3/5) and sensory aphasia with echolalia; the rest of the examination was normal. Laboratory tests showed normal red blood count and platelets, leukocytes within normal range without deviation to the left, ESR 5 mm/h, normal coagulation, biochemistry with normal glucose, ions, renal and hepatic function, CRP 0.1mg/dL; HIV serology negative and toxoplasma IgG positive, serum cryptococcal antigen negative. Cranial computed tomography (CT) showed a left parietal space-occupying lesion (LOE) with a maximum axis of 2 cm surrounded by digitiform oedema, which with contrast showed annular enhancement. Given that the brain image was compatible with primary neoplasia or metastasis, a CT scan of the chest and abdomen was requested and no lesions compatible with a primary tumour were observed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the skull was performed, with the finding of two LOEs, one left frontal and the other right parietooccipital, which due to their characteristics suggested brain abscesses as a first possibility. In view of these findings, the patient was transferred to neurosurgery for sampling and drainage of the left frontal lesion by stereotactic surgery.

Differential diagnosis
Just as the aetiopathogenesis of a single brain abscess is usually extension by contiguity from a parameningeal focus, immunosuppression is a risk factor for multiple brain abscesses due to haematogenous dissemination. After ruling out possible sources of distant infection (endocarditis, lung abscess, cystic fibrosis, empyema) and verifying the non-tropical origin of the patient (in this case, assess schistosomiasis, cysticercosis or amoebiasis, among others), we must focus on pathogens that are more frequently isolated in immunocompromised patients. Intracranial abscesses due to bacteria such as Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Stenotrophomonas maltophilia are less frequent in immunocompromised patients. S. aureus involvement is usually a complication of endocarditis. Brain abscesses due to Mycobacterium tuberculosis have also been reported, but are rare and may or may not be associated with disseminated infection. Cerebral toxoplasmosis usually presents with changes in the patient's mental status, seizures, headache and focal neurological deficits. The lesions, usually multiple, are located in the periventricular area, and enhance in the ring with contrast. In patients with probable toxoplasmosis, empirical therapy is justified in the absence of microbiological diagnosis when antitoxoplasma serology (IgG antibodies) is positive. Patients with central nervous system (CNS) infection with Listeria usually present with bacteraemia. Although meningitis is the most common form of presentation, it has also been described in brain abscesses, encephalitis or rhomboencephalitis. Aspergillus brain abscesses usually present with concurrent pulmonary involvement. Clinically, patients develop altered mental status with or without seizures; neurological deficits and signs of meningeal irritation are less common. Lesions are usually multifocal with a predilection for the junction between grey and white matter of the cerebral hemispheres (more frontoparietal), but may also involve the cerebellum or midbrain. It has a high mortality rate.
Cryptococcus can be a cause of meningitis in immunocompromised patients. The presentation as cryptococcal brain abscess is almost exclusive to AIDS patients, and usually involves the basal ganglia. CNS involvement by Candida occurs in the context of candidemia, and may occur in co-infections with Aspergillus. On imaging, they are usually small, multiple lesions with ring enhancement after contrast, and located in the white matter or deep in the grey matter. Nocardia is also prone to CNS infection in the form of abscesses, being the most frequent site of secondary infection (pulmonary infection is often the gateway). Cutaneous or soft tissue involvement may be present. Abscesses due to Nocardia may be loculated, single or multiple (up to 40%) and show ring enhancement after contrast. Dematiaceous fungi (genera Dactylaria, Ochroconis, Scoledobasidium) are very rare pathogens and may cause single or multiple brain abscesses with ring enhancement after contrast. Affected patients often also present with skin or lung infection. It can be difficult to decide whether or not a dematiaceous fungus is involved in the pathological process, as they may present as contaminants of clinical specimens.

Evolution
After the brain biopsy, we started treatment with ceftriaxone, metronidazole, pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine while awaiting the microbiological and anatomopathological results. After 14 days, the patient showed no clinical improvement, with radiological worsening (enlargement of the frontal lesion, with no change in the occipital lesion). During this time the patient began to experience nausea and vomiting that caused hydroelectrolytic alterations; attributing these symptoms to the antimicrobial treatment, it was decided to replace sulphadiazine with clindamycin and discontinue metronidazole, with little improvement in gastrointestinal intolerance. Anatomical pathology ruled out brain tumour and cultures were negative. After 28 days of antibiotic treatment, a cranial CT scan was performed, but no improvement was observed; we assessed with neurosurgery the best course of action to follow, scheduling a new stereotactic surgery. Antibiotics were suspended for a week to increase the yield of the samples. Minutes after the operation, microbiology informed us of the visualisation of abundant forms of Nocardia in the Gram test (confirmed days later by culture), so we started treatment with ceftriaxone and cotrimoxazole. The organism was subsequently identified as Nocardia asteroides sensu stricto. Despite targeted antibiotic treatment for Nocardia (ceftriaxone and cotrimoxazole), the patient continued to deteriorate radiologically. Microbiology informed us of resistance to ceftriaxone, so we suspended it and added imipenem and linezolid to the cotrimoxazole. This caused an increase in gastrointestinal intolerance in the patient, with clinical and analytical effects, forcing us to suspend treatment for 24 hours, and then restart it without cotrimoxazole, and the patient did not present these symptoms again. In analytical control, severe pancytopenia was observed, which required transfusion of 3 red blood cell concentrates and forced us to suspend linezolid, adding levofloxacin. The patient continued to progress favourably, with improvement in neurological symptoms and a decrease in the size of the brain lesions on imaging tests. After 40 days of effective treatment according to the antibiogram, it was decided to switch to oral levofloxacin monotherapy and, once tolerance was verified, the patient was discharged from hospital. After a month of outpatient follow-up, the patient is at home with good clinical and radiological evolution; she tolerates oral antibiotic treatment (levofloxacin 500 mg every 12 hours), and regular check-ups are carried out at the outpatient infectious diseases clinic.

Final diagnosis
Main diagnosis: "Brain abscesses due to Nocardia asteroides sensu stricto resistant to ceftriaxone, in a patient immunosuppressed by chronic treatment with corticoids". Other diagnoses: "Intolerance to sulfadiazine and cotrimoxazole" and "Severe pancytopenia due to linezolid".
