We present the case of a 67-year-old male, with no known drug allergies and a previous personal history of arterial hypertension, permanent non-anticoagulated atrial fibrillation and heart failure of hypertensive origin in New York Heart Association functional class I-II. In addition to this history, the patient was recently diagnosed with liver cirrhosis of probable ethyl alcoholic origin after being admitted to the Digestive Department of our centre for a first episode of hydropic decompensation that was controlled with diuretics. On admission, a 2-centimetre liver lesion with a radiological pattern suggestive of hepatocellular carcinoma was observed, and the patient was currently awaiting assessment by the Liver Transplant Unit. Three months after the previous admission, the patient returned to the emergency department due to worsening general condition, abdominal distension and constipation, accompanied by fever and chills without fever. The ED noted the presence of ascites, renal failure, not previously present, and hyponatraemia, and therefore admission to the Digestive Department was made after ruling out the presence of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis by means of diagnostic paracentesis. On arrival at the Digestive Ward, the attending physician indicated the extraction of blood cultures without fever, on suspicion of a possible non-evident infectious process, as the cause of the current decompensation. 48 hours after the blood cultures were taken, Microbiology informed us of the growth of a gram-positive enterobacterium that was identified as Clostridium ramosum using the MALDITOF technique, which is why we proceeded to assess the case.
After a thorough anamnesis, the patient reported, as the only additional symptom not recorded, a back pain radiating to the left lower limb, of about 3 weeks' duration and with an apparently mechanical rhythm. He had consulted his health centre for these symptoms, and his primary care physician had started treatment with common analgesics, without the patient noticing a clear improvement in his symptoms.

On examination, he had an antalgic posture in hip flexion with pain on palpation in the lumbar region and positive Lasegue at 60 degrees. Both mobility and sensitivity were preserved. These symptoms prevented him from resting at night and worsened with mobilisation. Since admission, the patient had remained afebrile at all times.

When in doubt about the clinical significance of the detection of Clostridium ramosum in blood cultures, new blood cultures were taken without fever, an in vitro nucleic acid amplification test for the detection and identification of bacterial and fungal DNA (SEPTIFAST) was performed and an abdominal and lumbar spine CT scan was requested to exclude an intra-abdominal infection, rule out the presence of neoplastic colon pathology, re-evaluate the previous liver lesion and assess the lumbar spine. While awaiting an antibiogram, treatment was started with intravenous penicillin, which after confirming sensitivity to metronidazole was replaced by metronidazole, to avoid the saline overload associated with the administration of penicillin in a cirrhotic patient with ascites.

Second blood cultures taken without fever and SEPTIFAST were negative and abdominal CT showed no evidence of intra-abdominal infection or colonic pathology. On the other hand, the liver lesion was stable with respect to the previous imaging test, with no evidence of portal thrombosis. Regarding the lumbar spine, the CT scan was reported as: degenerative changes at the level of the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae without data of spondylodiscitis. In the following days of admission, the patient remained afebrile but with uncontrolled lumbar pain despite analgesia, which required the use of intravenous steroids for pain control. Given the persistence of the clinical manifestations, it was decided to request a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.

Differential diagnosis
Clostridium ramosum bacteraemia of unclear focus:
1. In favour of the abdominal focus, a history of liver cirrhosis, the sensation of abdominal distension and constipation. Against this diagnosis, the presence of a CT scan without suggestive data.
2. In favour of the osteoarticular focus, the presence of lumbosciatica and degenerative changes of the lumbar spine on CT. Against, the characteristics of the pain, which appear to be of mechanical rhythm, the absence of data suggestive of spondylodiscitis on CT and the improbability of Clostridium ramosum as the cause of this entity.
3. Finally, assess the presence of Clostridium ramosum in blood cultures as a possible error.


Evolution
MRI showed hyperintensity in STIR of the L3, L4 and L5 vertebral bodies and hyperintensity in T2 TSE and STIR of the L3-L4 and L4-L5 lumbar intervertebral discs. MRI sagittal slice lumbosacral spine T1 and T2 sequence: involvement of L3, L4 and L5 vertebral bodies.

Intravenous gadolinium administration reveals heterogeneous enhancement of the lower half of the L3 vertebral body and the L4 and L5 vertebral bodies. In addition, there is hypointense tissue in T1 and hyperintense in T2 and STIR lateral and posterior to the L3-L5 vertebral bodies, which is heterogeneously enhanced with hypocaptive foci within it. All these findings are compatible with an infectious spondylodiscitis at L3-L4 and L4-L5 level with phlegmonous tissue and foci of epidural abscess stenosing the vertebral canal. In addition, at the level of the left psoas muscle, numerous focal areas are observed, markedly hyperintense in T2 with peripheral uptake and hypocaptured centre in relation to abscesses at this level.
Given the radiological diagnosis of infectious spondylodiscitis and a single positive blood culture for Clostridium ramosum, extracted without fever, we wondered whether the spondylodiscitis was caused by Clostridium or whether it was a clinically insignificant finding and the spondylodiscitis was caused by a different germ. The dilemma therefore arose as to whether to assume a Clostridium aetiology or to perform a vertebral sampling in a patient at high surgical risk due to cirrhosis with associated coagulopathy.
After discussing the case, it was decided that we could not assume with the minimum guarantees that Clostridium ramosum was the cause of the symptoms, so we decided to perform a vertebral biopsy to take microbiological samples. After informing the patient, he refused any invasive procedure and therefore refused to take samples.
Given the patient's refusal to undergo surgical sampling, it was decided to design an empirical antibiotic treatment that was active against Clostridium ramosum, but with coverage against other more common germs such as staphylococci, streptococci and enterobacteria. Given that the Clostridium was sensitive to quinolones, after completing nine days of intravenous treatment with metronidazole and the patient requested voluntary discharge, it was decided to discharge the patient with moxifloxacin 400 mg daily orally until further review in consultation. One month after his discharge from hospital, at the first consultation, the patient was clinically worse, with lumbar pain radiating to both lower limbs that prevented him from moving, although he had no loss of strength or paraesthesia.

At the analytical level, there had been a slight increase in C-reactive protein (CRP), which went from 1 mg/L at the time of discharge to 12 mg/L. In this situation, it was decided to propose again to the patient that samples be taken, given the possibility of therapeutic failure, with a view to clarifying the microbiological aetiology of the condition, and on this occasion the patient agreed to the procedure. At this point, it was decided to suspend antibiotic treatment to optimise the cost-effectiveness of the sampling and a new MRI, a transesophageal echography and a new round of blood cultures were requested without fever. Echocardiography showed no evidence of infective endocarditis. The control MRI showed progression of the L3-L4 and L4-L5 spondylodiscitis with respect to the previous study, showing abscessation of the discs and perivertebral phlegmonous tissue, with stenosis of the vertebral canal and extension of the process to both psoas muscles, with abscesses in the left one. MRI sagittal section lumbosacral spine T1 and T2 sequence: progression of spondylodiscitis L3-L4 and L4-L5 with abscessation of the discs is observed.

Blood cultures, taken again without fever, were again reported as positive for Clostridium ramosum. Despite this isolation, it was decided to maintain the indication for vertebral biopsy, but in the end this was not performed because the Anaesthesia Service rejected the procedure at the last minute due to surgical risk. Once again we were faced with the dilemma of whether to assume that Clostridium was the cause and the previous treatment had been insufficient or whether the detection of Clostridium in blood culture had no clinical significance and the cause of the poor evolution could be insufficient coverage of the empirical regimen. After discussing the case in a multidisciplinary session and reviewing the literature, it was suggested that the detection of Clostridium ramosum in blood cultures on two occasions should be considered significant and that the spondylodiscitis could indeed be due to this germ and that the initial treatment had been insufficient.
It was therefore decided to repeat a course of intravenous treatment and to boost treatment at discharge with two drugs active against Clostridium. Treatment was restarted with ampicillin 2 g every 6 hours for 20 days together with moxifloxacin 400 mg orally for 21 days, followed by sequential treatment with amoxicillin (1 g every 8 hours) with moxifloxacin (400 mg every 24 hours). The patient was reviewed in consultations 8 weeks after the start of oral treatment (10 weeks of accumulated treatment) to assess clinical, radiological and analytical evolution. A control MRI showed an increase in abscesses in the right anterolateral epidural space of L3-L4 and L4-L5 causing stenosis of the canal, but with a decrease in L3-L5 bone oedema and adjacent soft tissues, as well as a disappearance of the abscesses in the psoas muscle. MRI sagittal section lumbosacral spine T2 sequence: increased abscessation in the L3-L4 and L4-L5 space causing canal stenosis.

Clinically, the patient was stationary, with poorly controlled pain but with good mobilisation of both lower limbs. On analytical control, an increase in CRP was again documented, which was 60 mg/L (previously 12 mg/L). In view of this situation, it was decided to continue with the current antibiotic treatment and to add dexamethasone 4 mg every 12 hours for pain control. At a review after 14 weeks of oral treatment, the patient showed significant clinical improvement and a CRP of 1 mg/L, so it was decided to discontinue antibiotic treatment. At present the patient remains asymptomatic and is awaiting radiological and laboratory re-evaluation 8 weeks after completion of treatment.

Final diagnosis
Spondylodiscitis L3-L4 and L4-L5 secondary to Clostridium ramosum bacteraemia.
