A 43-year-old male patient from Romania who has been living in our country for several years, despite the fact that he has a significant language barrier and lives in a precarious social situation (destitution).

His personal history includes being an active smoker and a chronic alcoholic habit. He does not receive regular treatment and reports no adverse reactions to medication. He had no history of tuberculosis (TB) and no history of vaccination or treatment for TB. He had not undergone any surgical intervention until 8 months ago when he suffered an accidental fall from a height of 3 metres onto his right foot with an associated closed fracture of the tibial pylon and fibula, as well as a cranial trauma with minimal subarachnoid haemorrhage and a fracture of the 8th rib and small left apical pneumothorax in the thorax. Radiographic condensation was also observed in the right upper lobe, which was interpreted as aspiration pneumonia in this context. The fracture was reduced with osteosynthesis material (OSM): plates on the tibia and fibula with 8 cortico-cancellous screws in both the fibula and tibia.

She now consults for swelling of the right ankle with pain, erythema and fluctuating oedema with fistulisation in the pretibial region. She had started antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid and ciprofloxacin on an outpatient basis due to suspicion of infection at that level without improvement. In the anamnesis conducted by apparatus and systems, she denied any other associated clinical manifestations.

On physical examination he was eupneic and afebrile, in acceptable general condition with good skin and mucous membrane colouring, blood pressure 130/60 mmHg, heart rate 65 bpm and baseline oxygen saturation 97%. Weight: 75 kg. There was no oropharyngeal thrush and no peripheral lymphadenopathies were palpable. Cardiac and respiratory auscultation was normal. The abdomen was soft to palpation, non-painful, without masses or organomegaly. Oedematisation of the right ankle with the previously mentioned findings. There were no signs of deep vein thrombosis. Peripheral pulses were symmetrical. The neurological examination was normal.

Initial complementary tests were: CBC with thrombocytosis (542,000/mm3), haemoglobin, MCV, leukocyte count and formula were normal; blood glucose 128 mg/dL, C-reactive protein 9. 06 mg/dL, with normal renal function and ions; coagulation not altered except fibrinogen of 642 mg/dL; anteroposterior and lateral radiography of the right leg showing absence of consolidation of fracture of the distal epiphysis of the right tibia with heterogeneous radiological density at that level, fragmentation and mobilisation of at least 3 cortico-medullary screws in the tibia; and postero-posterior and lateral radiography of the right leg showing absence of consolidation of fracture of the distal epiphysis of the right tibia with heterogeneous radiological density at that level, fragmentation and mobilisation of at least 3 cortico-medullary screws in the tibia; and posteroanterior and lateral chest X-ray showing alveolar infiltrate in the right upper lobe similar to the one present in the previous study. Anteroposterior and lateral radiograph of the right leg: Absence of consolidation of fracture of the distal epiphysis of the tibia. Detachment of cortico-medullary screws. Posteroanterior chest X-ray: alveolar infiltrate in the right upper lobe.


Differential diagnosis
In summary, this is a patient with a fracture of the tibia and fibula reduced with OS material 8 months ago who consulted for swelling of the right ankle with fistulization to the skin. The X-ray shows the lack of consolidation of the fracture reduced with OS material, with fragmentation and migration of some elements, in addition to maintaining a radiological lesion in the right pulmonary apex throughout this process which has not changed. Laboratory tests showed elevation of some acute phase reactants (CRP, platelets, fibrinogen).
The anamnesis highlights his country of origin (Romania) and the epidemiological history of living in poor sanitary conditions as well as chronic consumption of toxic substances (tobacco and alcohol).
Therefore the differential diagnosis is centred around a pseudarthrosis (absence/delay of consolidation 6-8 months after reduction with MOS) whose risk factors are directly related to age, to certain systemic diseases (TB, syphilis, diabetes, hypothyrodism, osteopenia), to local factors specific to the fracture (location, type, open/closed), as well as to the treatment carried out on the fracture (failure in the reduction, immobilisation). The patient was young and reported no constitutional symptoms, although he had risk factors for tuberculosis infection (country of origin of intermediate prevalence, alcoholism, destitution), he was at risk of osteopenia due to the fact that he was a smoker, and his glycaemic and thyroid profiles were normal. The acute or subacute appearance of inflammatory symptoms after a paucisymptomatic post-reduction interval, accompanied by pain and purulent drainage to the skin, probably communicating with the implanted material, suggests the presence of osteomyelitis of the fracture with associated infection of the OS material as the first diagnostic suspicion and cause of non-union. 

However, we should not rule out other much less probable aetiologies for two reasons:
1. Osteomyelitis is considered to be a great simulator since radiologically it can show a variable appearance, present in any location, etc.
2. The existence of a chronic lung lesion of uncertain origin.

Therefore, other possible aetiologies should be considered in the background:
- Tumour (primary bone, plasmacytoma, metastatic with pulmonary primary).
- TB (apical pulmonary infiltrate that has not changed in the last 8 months and is asymptomatic and could correspond to a residual TB lesion or active TB).
- Mycosis (we do not know if the patient has any added acquired immunosuppression factor: HIV infection, neoplasia, etc.).
- Others: eosinophilic granuloma, sarcoidosis, histiocytoma... 

Our diagnostic hypothesis focused, on the one hand, on a tibial infection associated with OS material and, on the other, on pulmonary TB (residual or active) as an associated finding in the patient's study.

Evolution
With the initial clinical, epidemiological and analytical data, and given the main suspicion of infection associated with OS material, with a chronic right pulmonary apex lesion, a sputum study was requested with Gram and auramine stains, standard and Löwestein-Jensen cultures; Mantoux; and serology for HIV, HBV, HCV and syphilis. The smear microscopy showed no acid fast bacilli, the Mantoux test was positive (20 mm induration at 48 hours) and the serology was negative. The patient was scheduled for trauma surgery with complete removal of the OS material from the fibula, although 3 screws remained in the tibia, the removal of which was not possible, and the rest were successfully removed. The focus was cleaned with very abundant lavage, drainage and wound closure; intraoperative microbiological bone samples were taken and cultured in the usual media and also for mycobacteria, following the recommendation given by Microbiology, and despite the fact that this aetiological possibility was considered remote.
After surgery, parenteral cloxacillin was started as empirical treatment.
Cultures isolated methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus auerus (SAMS) in the 4 bone samples, so initial treatment was maintained and later changed to cefazolin due to recurrent phlebitis.
He was discharged after 14 days of intravenous (iv) treatment with improvement of pain and inflammatory semiology and was then started on levofloxacin 500 mg every 12 hours orally (vo). Rifampicin was not associated with the treatment, pending receipt of the microbiological results for mycobacteria in order to rule out or confirm the coexistence of pulmonary TB, thus avoiding possible monotherapy with the latter.
The first check-up in the Infectious Diseases department after discharge had to be brought forward due to the unexpected presence of positive smears in the bone samples. At the time, the results of the cultures for mycobacteria, which had grown in both respiratory and bone samples, were already available and were identified as Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, so anti-tuberculosis treatment was started with rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol (RHZE) adjusted to weight (600/300/1,600/1,400 mg per day), and levofloxacin was maintained at the aforementioned dose. Genotypic studies showed no resistance to R (rpoB gene mutations) and H (katG and inhA) in bone samples.
At present the antibiogram is pending and the patient continues on the same treatment (first two months). The appearance of the right leg is good, with slight swelling but no other associated inflammatory signs and a favourable radiological evolution. No side effects from the treatment have been observed.


Final diagnosis
Disseminated tuberculosis:
- Non-bacillary pulmonary tuberculosis.
- Bone tuberculosis associated with osteosynthesis material in the right tibia. Associated co-infection with S. aureus MS.
Incomplete surgical treatment with partial removal of the material.
