Anamnesis
23-year-old male, with a personal history of left radical orchiectomy 7 months ago for a testicular tumour with pathological anatomy of combined germinal tumour (60% endodermal sinus tumour, 20% embryonal carcinoma, 20% teratoma). Residual retroperitoneal mass after chemotherapy treatment, with negative tumour markers. Laparoscopic excision of a left para-aortic mass one month ago with no notable incidents (pathological anatomy with no evidence of malignancy).
She came to the Emergency Department with progressive abdominal distension of 3 weeks' evolution associated with diffuse abdominal pain and vomiting in the last few days. Orthopnoea that has been intensifying and obliges him to sleep with two pillows. No fever or other symptoms.

Physical examination
Afebrile, abdomen distended and tympanic, diffusely painful on palpation. Hydro-aerial sounds present.

Complementary tests
Urgent blood tests: creatinine 0.8 mg/dl, C-reactive protein 0.5 mg/dl, leukocytes 6.10 x 1,000/l, haemoglobin 14 g/dl.
Urgent abdominal-pelvic computed tomography (CT): abundant ascites in all spaces. No peritoneal uptake or signs of peritoneal dissemination. Post-surgical changes in the left retroperitoneal region. Moderate amount of bilateral pleural effusion with compressive atelectasis of adjacent parenchyma.
● Diagnostic paracentesis: sampling of a milky fluid for submission to Microbiology (sterile), cytology (negative for malignancy) and triglyceride count (1,525 mg/dl).

Diagnosis
Chylous ascites as a complication following laparoscopic retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy.

Treatment
With the diagnosis of chylous ascites, a drainage catheter was placed percutaneously and guided by CT, evacuating 4,000 cc of ascitic fluid in the first 24 hours, with symptomatic improvement of the patient (decrease in abdominal perimeter and disappearance of orthopnoea).
Conservative management was carried out, leaving the patient on an absolute diet and progressing to a lipid-restricted diet for the following 3 weeks, with the drainage debit remaining at zero during this time.
After the reintroduction of fats in the diet, in the fourth week of admission, the drainage debit began to increase, remaining at a rate of around 500 cc daily, and it was decided to start treatment with octreotide 100 μg/8 hours for 2 weeks and to restrict fatty foods.

Evolution
After completing treatment with octreotide, the drainage output remained close to 150 cc/day despite dietary restrictions. The patient needed to be admitted for a febrile episode secondary to bacterial colonisation of the ascitic fluid (Pseudomonas aeruginosa), with good resolution after completing a course of broad-spectrum antibiotherapy (piperacillin-tazobactam).
Due to the persistence of the debit 3 months after the onset of the clinical picture, total parenteral nutrition was started for 2 weeks, with disappearance of the lymphorrhoea. After confirming the absence of recurrence after progressive reintroduction of feeding, the drain was removed, with no new ascitic episode in subsequent imaging controls.
