A 56-year-old male patient, resident of Olmué (Valparaíso Region), with a history of chronic allergic rhinitis since his youth and fungal rhinosinusitis diagnosed and treated with endoscopic surgical cleaning and oral fluconazole two years earlier. She consulted for abundant, thick, greenish-yellow, foul-smelling nasal discharge, with posterior discharge, headache and reduced sense of smell. A computed axial tomography (CT) scan of the paranasal sinuses showed thickening of the mucosa of the right frontal sinus and veiling of the ipsilateral maxillary and ethmoid sinuses. CT scan of paranasal sinuses with mucosal thickening of the right frontal sinus. CT scan of paranasal sinuses with diffuse veiling of the right ethmoid cells. CT scan of the paranasal sinuses with diffuse veiling of the right maxillary sinus.

Endoscopic surgery was performed including eradication of the endonasal lesions, wide right ethmoidectomy and median meatotomy with Caldwell-Luc approach of the right maxillary recess to ensure strict cleaning and defocation, obtaining abundant material (mucin) which was sent for microbiological study.

Bacterial cultures were all negative. Direct microscopic examination with 20% KOH and Gomori-Grocott stain showed abundant septate hyphae at a dichotomous angle of 45°. Presence of hyphae at dichotomous angle. Gomori-Grocott stain. 40X. Cultures on Sabouraud agar showed development of Curvularia sp. The patient was treated with itraconazole, 400 mg capsules per day for six months and inhaled corticosteroids. He progressed with good clinical response. He is currently asymptomatic and carrying out all his usual activities.

Species identification

Mucin samples were sown on Sabouraud agar at 27 and 37°C, all cultures yielded dark grey filamentous colonies with dried conidia. After 5 days of incubation.

They were then seeded on maize flour agar and water agar with wheat straw at 25°C for 10 days.

Macroscopy: colonies were velvety with a cottony centre, dark grey on the front and black on the back, with abundant dried conidia.

Microscopy: dematiaceous hyphae, more or less erect conidiophores, conidia with central cell longer than the other cells, with 3-5 distosepts, measuring 28-45 x 10-16 μm. Macroconidia with longer central cell, with 3-5 distosepts. Lactophenol stain with cotton blue. 100X.

The above description matches the species Curvularia inaequalis (Shear) Boedijn.
