A 44-year-old woman with a history of migraine, with no other medical history of interest, consulted for a fever of up to 39oC and left hemicranial headache with migraine-like characteristics of 4 days' evolution. The medical history included generalised arthralgias with possible arthritis of the wrists and knees, with no other symptoms. From the epidemiological point of view, she denies risky sexual relations or recent travel. She lives in a rural area and has contact with a cat and cattle, reporting tick bites in the previous 2 months, with no skin lesions. He denies the use of toxic substances, drugs, herbal products or unpasteurised dairy products. The general and neurological examination was unremarkable, with elevated acute phase reactants (CRP 17 mg/dl), thrombopenia (66 x 1000/μl) and a predominantly cholestatic liver profile alteration (GPT 95 U/l, GOT 110 U/l, GGT 193 U/l, Alkaline Phosphatase 118 U/l, LDH 439 U/l, Bilirubin 3. 5 mg/dl), with negative serology (HIV, HAV, HBV, HCV, EBV, CMV, lupus, Borrelia, Toxoplasma, Coxiella, Bartonella henselae, Bartonella quintana and R. conorii) and Rose Bengal, chest X-ray, abdominal ultrasound (evidence of hepatic LOEs compatible with haemangiomas), cranial CT scan and lumbar puncture with no findings. Broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy was started, but the fever persisted and in the following 48 hours the patient developed focal peritonism in the right hypochondrium. An abdominal CT scan was performed showing homogeneous hepatomegaly, previously described haemangiomas and significant perivesicular and periportal oedema (figure 1), without conclusive signs of cholecystitis. Given these findings, cholecystectomy was performed with excellent subsequent evolution. There was no evidence of microbiological isolation in abdominal fluid or blood cultures. Open liver biopsy showed evidence of acute hepatitis, with lymphohistiocytic aggregates grouped in non-necrotising microgranulomas, with no evidence of HBV, CMV or HSV antigens, and with immunohistochemistry compatible with a mixed lymphocyte phenotype of predominantly T and CD68-positive macrophages. In light of the histological findings and based on Coxiella Phase II IgG seroconversion (Coxiella Phase I and II IgG negative on admission; Phase I IgG negative, Phase II IgG positive > 1/512 at 15 days) the diagnosis of Q fever was confirmed.
