We present the clinical case of a 68-year-old man with diarrhoea lasting more than 14 days and a weight loss of 8 kg in three months. His personal history included a heart transplant for ischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy (2005), a bicameral endocavitary pacemaker, grade IV chronic renal failure and urothelial carcinoma diagnosed a few months earlier. He was undergoing immunosuppressive therapy with mycophenolate, everolimus and deflazacort.

The patient attended the emergency department in June 2014, reporting four to five daily bowel movements of liquid consistency and without pathological products, together with colicky abdominal pain accentuated in the right hypochondrium and of approximately two to three weeks' evolution. She also reported a weight loss of about eight kilos in three months, which had coincided with the recent diagnosis of an untreated urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. Examination revealed a distended abdomen, tympanic on percussion and painful on palpation with hypersensitivity in the right iliac fossa. With no relevant findings in the complementary tests performed in the emergency department, he was admitted for a digestive work-up which was completed with abdominal CT scan, stool culture, determination of Clostridium difficile toxin, serological studies for viral infections and colonoscopy.

The abdominal CT scan showed symmetrical thickening of the walls of the third duodenal portion with trabeculation of the adjacent fat. Digestive symptoms improved with symptomatic treatment, intravenous fluid therapy and dietary rest.

On the fifth day of admission, the patient began with a high fever and disseminated vesicular lesions affecting the extremities, trunk, face and scalp, which were very pruritic. A blood test carried out at that time revealed the following findings: 11000 leukocytes/mm3 with 9830 neutrophils/mm3, creatinine 2.4 mg/dL and C-reactive protein 244 mg/L. A chest X-ray showed an interstitial infiltrate in the right hemithorax with greater involvement of the base of the lung. In view of these findings, empirical treatment with intravenous acyclovir and levofloxacin was started and blood and sputum cultures, serological studies and a sample of exudate from one of the vesicles was taken for detection of varicella zoster (VZV) by PCR.

Differential diagnosis
The list of possible causes of diarrhoea is quite extensive. The duration of symptoms allows us to narrow down the possible options by differentiating between acute diarrhoea, lasting less than two weeks, and chronic diarrhoea, lasting more than two weeks. On the other hand, the presence of fever, chills, blood or traces of pus in the faeces are clinical data that point to an inflammatory process, usually of an infectious nature.

Infectious causes should be especially considered in immunocompromised or transplanted patients, as in our case. The probability of the different aetiologies will vary according to the time elapsed since transplantation. In long-term transplant recipients, the most frequent infections are those acquired in the community. In these patients, colonoscopy and biopsy are particularly necessary, which will provide data on the extent of the process and may also suggest other diagnoses such as inflammatory bowel disease, ischaemic colitis or neoplasia. Mycophenolate is an immunosuppressant frequently used in transplant patients whose side effects include gastroenteritis, which sometimes leads to changes in the dose to be prescribed. Finally, Clostridium difficile colitis is an option that should always be considered in this group of patients.

In the patient presented here, the duration of symptoms of more than two weeks and the absence of pathological products in the stool lead us to consider the most common causes of acute symptoms and invasive bacterial infections as unlikely. Even so, given his condition as a transplanted and immunosuppressed patient, an atypical clinical evolution of common causes of acute diarrhoea could be expected. Rare infections in immunocompetent subjects such as cytomegalovirus (CMV) enteritis as well as toxicities from drugs such as mycophenolate should be considered. Given his history of urothelial neoplasia and the higher incidence of tumours reported in patients with chronic immunopressor treatments, the possibility of a digestive neoplasia or a neoplasia at another level, and the diarrhoea in the latter case could be explained as a paraneoplastic symptom. Our patient also presented on the fifth day with fever and disseminated vesicular lesions, which evolved into crusts, presenting in different stages of evolution within a few days and allowing the clinical diagnosis of disseminated herpes zoster. However, at an early stage, the clinical diagnosis was not so obvious and other diagnostic hypotheses such as bullous pephingoid, erythema multiforme or exanthema medicamentosum could be put forward.

Evolution
The result of PCR for VZV in the exudate of one of the vesicles was positive. Serology showed positive IgG for VZV and negative IgM. Other serological studies requested (hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, Epstein Barr virus, herpes simplex virus I and II (HSV), Yersinia, Coxiella burnetti and HIV) were negative or indicative of past infections. Stool culture and a stool Clostridium difficile toxin determination were also negative. Fever disappeared as well as acute phase reactants decreased and the number of stools per day decreased. Upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed and inflammatory signs were found in the colon with some ulceration. Samples of colonic mucosa were taken, showing cytopathic changes and inclusion bodies compatible with viral infection. PCR was performed with a positive result for CMV (112 copies) in the histological sample and in plasma (330 copies). CMV serology showed positive IgG and negative IgM. Intravenous treatment with ganciclovir was started at a dose adjusted to renal function as well as total parenteral nutrition given the calorie-protein malnutrition and persistent diarrhoea. Mycophenolate levels were requested with results below the therapeutic range. Treatment with intravenous ganciclovir was maintained for 14 days, after which valganciclovir was started, obtaining a negative serum viral load in the first week and clinical improvement with a decrease in the number of stools, increased stool consistency and progressive oral digestive tolerance. Treatment with valganciclovir was maintained for 30 days. A few months after discharge, the patient suffered a new clinical deterioration with intense pruritus, jaundice, elevated cholestasis enzymes, hyperbilirubinaemia and data compatible with tumour of the biliary tract with intrahepatic progression. By the patient's decision, no further diagnostic or therapeutic tests were performed, and he was transferred to palliative care. The patient finally died as a consequence of tumour progression.

Final diagnosis
Cytomegalovirus enteritis. Disseminated herpes zoster.

