This is a 44-year-old woman, religious, resident of Paredes de Nava and a native of Kenya, who consulted for a fever of up to 40oC with shivering for the last 6 days. Personal history of pancytopenia and rheumatoid arthritis.
He had travelled to his native country to visit his family, from where he had returned 4 days earlier and where he had been staying for a month. He had not taken any anti-infective prophylaxis. The fever was not accompanied by cough, expectoration or chest pain, but by diarrhoea with two to three liquid stools per day. He denied haemorrhages. Physical examination: 113 bpm, temperature 38.6oC, mild palpable splenomegaly, everything else being unremarkable.
CBC: haemoglobin 10 g/dL, leukocytes 2100/L and platelets 56000/L, (pancytopenia higher than usual). LDH 347 U/L, CRP 173 mg/L and procalcitonin 3.1 ng/mL. Bilirubin normal. Urine systemic: haemoglobin + and urobilinogen ++.
Abdominal ultrasound: spleen at the upper limit of normality. Blood cultures, stool culture, urine culture: negative. Chest and abdominal X-rays were normal.
Empirical treatment with doxycycline and ceftriaxone was started in the emergency department.
Once on the ward, given the suspicion of Malaria as the first option in the differential diagnosis, Malarone® (proguanil/atovaquone) 250/100mg, 4 tablets together daily for three consecutive days was started and the rest of the complementary tests were requested to rule out other possible causes of imported fever: B virus, C virus, HIV, Borrelia, Coxiella and Rikettsia serologies, in addition to the detection of malaria antigen in blood, which was positive for Plasmodium falciparum, so Malaria was finally diagnosed. No parasites were observed in the smear.
The diagnosis was made by means of a rapid diagnostic test that detects species-specific parasite antigen common to all species. The advantage is that it works like a pregnancy test and does not require experience on the part of the user.
The evolution was favourable, with disappearance of fever and anaemisation up to 7.7 g/dL haemoglobin, requiring transfusion of two red blood cell concentrates. On discharge she was asymptomatic and on review in the consultation room it was found that she did not become anaemic again.
