We present the case of a 51-year-old woman with documented allergy to pyrazolones and codeine. Her personal history included active smoking until three months previously, repeated bronchitis and vulvovaginal infections, arterial hypertension and low-grade follicular lymphoma for which she had received first-line treatment in 2009 according to the R-CHOP scheme, with subsequent relapse in 2015 treated with R-Bendamustine followed by maintenance rituximab, of which she had only received two doses due to persistent neutropenia despite repeated administration of G-CSF (granulocyte colony-stimulating factor). He was receiving home treatment with enalapril 20 mg at breakfast. Recent admission for febrile neutropenia and acute bronchitis with isolation of Haemophilus influenzae in sputum culture for which he received treatment with imipenem and fluconazole associated with G-CSF support with recovery of haemocyte count. The bone marrow biopsy described the existence of a hypocellular marrow and mature pseudo-stop in the granulocytic series. One month after discharge from hospital, the patient consulted for the appearance of a one-centimetre vesicle on the inner aspect of the right upper limb with flushing and local heat and incipient ulceration, all accompanied by fever. Samples were taken for culture and empirical antibiotic therapy with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid was started. After several days of treatment, given the torpid evolution of the lesion and the elevation of acute phase reactants in the tests, it was decided to admit him to hospital for intravenous antibiotherapy.

Differential diagnosis
Firstly, any skin and soft tissue infection may present as cellulitis, abscess or both. In any of these forms, erythema, oedema and warmth of the skin appear, with accumulation of pus within the dermis or subcutaneous space in the case of abscess. Petechiae/haemorrhages, skin blisters, fever or other systemic manifestations may sometimes occur, all of which are general and independent of the germ causing the infection. The most common germs include skin germs such as staphylococcus species, especially S. aureus; and given that this is a neutropenic patient, we should also consider the possibility of Streptococcus species of the viridans group, Streptococcus pyogenes and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the latter being closely related to the appearance of gangrenous ecthyma in neutropenic patients. Due to the history of recent previous admission, nosocomial pathogens such as Stenotrophomonas maltophilia and Aeromonas hydrophila should be taken into account. Nocardiosis and mycobacterial involvement would be less frequent aetiologies in this context because the patient's immunosuppression was not severe and because of the rapid evolution of the lesion, unsuitable for mycobacteria. Candida spp. and Aspergillus spp. would be very unlikely options and are usually associated with invasive fungal infections. Mucor spp. also appears as a skin infection in immunocompromised patients, but as an indurated papule with secondary necrosis, not corresponding to the characteristics of our patient's lesion. On the other hand, superficial Fusarium spp. infections occur in 70% of invasive forms, and a priori, our patient did not appear to have systemic involvement. In this case, sampling and culture will be the test that will determine the diagnosis.

Evolution
In the samples taken for culture, abundant growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (sensitive to ceftazidime, cefepime, imipenem, piperacillin/tazobactam, amikacin, gentamicin, tobramycin, ciprofloxacin and colistin) was isolated. Initially, he was treated with double therapy (piperacillin/tazobactam associated with quinolones) due to the significant skin and soft tissue involvement, and the CT scan showed a lesion on the right arm with a craniocaudal extension of 35 mm and a maximum depth of 11 mm. After two weeks of intravenous antibiotic therapy, sequential therapy with oral ciprofloxacin 500 mg every 12 hours was performed, allowing outpatient management. During follow-up consultations, the patient showed progressive improvement of the lesion until resolution, requiring daily dressings at her health centre. In view of the repeated infections, a bone marrow study was performed, which was compatible with agranulocytosis, and a plasma immunoglobulin determination was requested, showing low levels of IgG, so it was decided to start treatment with immunoglobulins on a monthly basis.

Final diagnosis
Soft tissue infection (Ecthyma gangrenosum) due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
