Reason for consultation
Fever, lymphadenopathy and skin rash.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
The patient is a 19 year old woman, with no toxic habits or regular treatment. She had been treated for appendicitis in childhood and had a history of infectious mononucleosis at puberty.

She came to the primary care clinic for a fever of 10 days' evolution, with morning and evening peaks. It was accompanied by rhinorrhoea, nausea, vomiting, loose stools without pathological products, aphthae, skin rashes and a weight loss of 5 kg in one month. No other semiology in the anamnesis directed by apparatus and systems. She does not live with animals. She has not been on trips or excursions to the countryside. She has not presented similar symptoms previously.

On physical examination the patient was in good general condition, somewhat asthenic, conscious, oriented and cooperative, well hydrated and perfused, non-mucous skin pallor, eupneic, haemodynamically stable. BP: 112/70 mmHg. HR: 90 spm. Ta 36,3oC.

In the oral cavity there are two subcentimetric oral aphthae on the lower lip. On the left cheek there is a plaque with some peripheral infiltration and meliceric crust. Erythematous, non-ulcerated lesions on the nasal septum, neckline and dorsum, on the thumbs of the second and third fingers of the left hand and on the second toe of the left foot. Submandibular adenopathies and in laterocervical chains, larger on the right side. Cardiopulmonary auscultation showed a systolic murmur in the aortic and pulmonary focus. The vesicular murmur was preserved.

In the abdomen there was a painful hepatomegaly of two finger widths and splenomegaly. Diffuse discomfort on palpation, without abdominal defence. Bilateral renal fist percussion was negative. The lower limbs show no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis. Good capillary refill, with distal pulses present.

Analysis of haemoglobin 10.2 g/dl, 2,470 leukocytes per mm3 with 1,770 neutrophils. Platelets 255,000. ESR of 98 mm/h. General and hepatic biochemistry normal except LDH 471 U/L. Sideremia and transferrin decreased. Angiotensin converting enzyme 53 U/L. Serology for HIV, toxoplasma, leishmania, rickettsia, coxiella, borrelia, leptospira and lupus negative. Negative for antinuclear, anticentromere, anti-DNA, ANA and antitransglutaminase antibodies. Faecal calprotectin of 57.6 microg/g.

We performed a clinical cervical ultrasound at the family medicine clinic, observing laterocervical and submandibular lymphadenopathies, mainly hypoechogenic with a tendency to cluster, bilaterally affecting the jugulocarotid chains, generally subcentimetric and with preserved fatty hilum, without necrosis. The largest is 2.5 cm long by 1.1 cm in antero-posterior diameter. On clinical abdominal ultrasound, the liver and spleen were found to be at the upper limit of normal size, but considering the patient's height and stature, they could be considered enlarged. Clinical echocardioscopy: Hyperdynamic left ventricle (LV), with no gross valvular abnormalities. Normal LV and right ventricular size and function. Absence of pericardial effusion.

Given the progression of the symptoms and the persistence of symptoms, the patient was referred to Internal Medicine for further investigation.

Blood and urine cultures were negative. CT scan of the chest and abdomen showed evidence of multiple small hypercapillary subcarinal, right paratracheal and gastrohepatic ligament hypercapillary lymph nodes, some of them larger but with a reactive periportal appearance. Ultrasound-guided core needle biopsy of submandibular adenopathy reported as foci of histiocytic-like infiltrate, not necrotising but with images of apoptosis. To rule out Gaucher disease, plasma chitotriosidase activity was requested and was negative (47.2 nmoles/ml/hour; normal range: 4 to 76 nmoles/ml/hour).

Family and community approach
19-year-old female. University student. Lives with her parents. Optimal family style. Good family support. Medium-high socio-cultural level.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Polyadenopathic syndrome compatible with Kikuchi Fujimoto disease. Differential diagnosis with a lymphoproliferative process, leishmaniasis, Gaucher's disease.

Action plan and evolution
Favourable evolution, with progressive reduction in the size of the adenopathies and disappearance of the fever after oral treatment for 2 weeks with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, remaining asymptomatic one year later.
