A male child was born to a 28 year old Bolivian mother in 3rd gestation. The pregnancy was well controlled with normal evolution and ended with caesarean section after failed induction. For the first time, during the dilation period, the pregnant woman mentioned that she was a carrier of Chagas disease, stating that she had been bitten by a "vinchuca" at the age of 6 when she lived in the Altiplano and diagnosed at the age of 20, during her first pregnancy. From her first marriage she has 2 children aged 6 and 8 years, resident in Bolivia, about whom she did not wish to provide any information. She currently lives in Spain and has not returned to her country. Physical examination of the newborn showed a healthy child of appropriate weight for his gestational age (2905kg), who started breastfeeding immediately after birth. Subsequent examinations confirmed neurological normality, semiological concordance with gestational age and absence of visceromegaly both clinically and ultrasonographically; the transfrontal ultrasound was also normal. In the first week of life the patient remained asymptomatic and with a good weight curve. After delivery, parasitological studies were carried out on blood samples from the child and the mother, and histopathological studies from the placenta and umbilical cord. Direct examinations of the mother's blood (microhaematocrit and culture) were negative, and only PCR detected the parasite in blood. Serology was positive, with high titres by the two techniques used. Following the course of events, on the 4th-5th day diagnostic confirmation of symptomatic infection was obtained in our patient when trypomastigote forms were observed in blood by direct examination, smear and thick blood smear and the microhaematocrit technique. Subsequently, the parasite was isolated in culture on NNN and T. cruzi DNA was detected by nested PCR. Histopathological studies from placenta and umbilical cord showed the presence of amastigotes forms. Treatment with benznidazole (Radanil® 100 mg comp.) at a dose of 8 mg/kg/day was initiated. Treatment was administered 2 days in hospital and then continued at home for 60 days. After discharge, clinical and/or analytical controls were performed at one month, and then at 4 months and 7 months of age. Parasitological controls by direct examination, culture and PCR were negative from 20 days after initiation of treatment and serological studies were negative from 4 months.
At one year of age there was a last clinical control, without serological control, and thereafter contact with the patient was lost. Microscopic study of chorionic membranes showing macrophages and giant cells with intracytoplasmic amastigotes. Mononuclear cells invaded by multiple amastigote forms of T. cruzi. Laboratory results in mother and child, at birth and during treatment controla ELISA R (with recombinant antigen) positive r ratio r>1bELISA C (with total antigen units U, positive U>20.

