MARH. Male patient aged 13 years, originally from the state of San Luis Potosí, resident in the Rancho Nuevo neighbourhood, municipality of San Antonio, in the same state. He presented at the health centre accompanied by his mother, where the medical staff requested a consultation to make a diagnosis. The interrogation was carried out directly and indirectly through an interview with the mother. The current illness had begun six days earlier due to the bite of the insect transmitting the disease, and the following day he presented with an unquantified fever, headache, right bipalpebral oedema and right preauricular adenitis. On the same day, a clinical epidemiological study was carried out with a clinical history, evaluation of the home and taking of samples for parasite and serological diagnosis. The non-pathological and pathological personal history was not relevant to the current condition. There is a history of epidemiological importance related to the knowledge of the insect that transmits the disease and its bites; the insect is known as the bedbug. Other important antecedents are the capture of 30 insects inside the house, three of which were positive for Trypanosoma cruzi infection, and the characteristics of the house with construction materials considered risky for the presence of the transmitter (reed walls, earthen floor and tin roof), as well as poor sanitary conditions, ventilation and lighting. The patient had a negative history of transfusions. On physical examination, the most relevant findings were the Romaña sign in the right eye with purplish pigmentation and right preauricular adenomegaly. No hepatosplenomegaly; lower limbs without oedema.

Parasitological diagnosis was confirmed by the Parasite Biology Laboratory by observation of the parasite in smear and thick drop, serology was negative with indirect ELISA (0.021 D.O.) and IFA. The diagnosis was confirmed and, prior to treatment, blood biometry, blood chemistry, general urine examination and liver function tests were requested, which were normal, so treatment was started with benznidazole at a dose of 10 mg/kg body weight per day for 30 days, under the supervision of the epidemiologist of the health jurisdiction, with no adverse reactions. The patient progressed asymptomatically and is now in apparent good health.
