A 13-year-old female patient was referred for consultation by her GP for presenting with fever of 37.5° C to 38°C, cough with scanty expectoration, weakness, asthenia and arthralgias of large joints, without effusion, which started 20 days after her arrival in Tucumán. During his evolution he developed erythema nodosum on the lower two thirds and anterior face of both legs, consisting of 10 to 12 elements on each of them, painful, spontaneously and on palpation, with erythema of the overlying skin. In addition, flictenular conjunctivitis was observed in both eyes, consisting of a group of congestive vessels of the bulbar conjunctiva, which from the external corner of the eye, reached the corneal edge, where they ended in a small flictena. Flictenular conjunctivitis: congestive vessels of the bulbar conjunctiva reaching the cornea and ending in a small flictena. The patient consulted 4 days after the onset of the clinical picture. She continued with the same symptoms for 15 days, after which convalescence began. She had a prolonged course, with general symptoms that slowly subsided and lasted for approximately 3 months. On the sixth day after the onset of the disease, laboratory tests showed: RBC. 4,400,000 per mm3; Hb. 12 g %; Ht. 37%; WBC. 8,900 per mm3; N 73%, E 2%, B 0%, L 20% and M 5%; ESR 100 mm at 1 hour; C-reactive protein ++++; ASTO 2,500 T.U.; glycaemia 78 mg/100 mL; normal hepatogram; facial swab negative for Streptococcus beta-hemolyticus group A (SßhGA), blood cultures, 3 samples negative for aerobic and anaerobic microorganisms and stool cultures with usual flora. Chest X-ray showed no abnormalities. As a valuable environmental and epidemiological background, she lived in the town of San Isidro, province of Buenos Aires, together with her parents and four sisters, aged 1, 9, 12 and 15 years, respectively. Both parents and the five sisters travelled by car to the province of Tucumán to visit relatives. As a salient fact, they report that they passed through very dry roads in Santiago del Estero, where the vehicle was filled with dust, which they inevitably breathed in. Once in Tucumán, during the 10 days of their stay, the five sisters played almost every day in the sheds of the farm's chicken farm.
The 15-year-old sister presented with a flu-like illness, with a fever of 37.5°C to 38°C, which started 20 days after her arrival in Tucumán and developed over a period of 10 days. She was treated symptomatically and the initial symptoms subsided. During the following 20 to 30 days she had asthenia, cough and headache. The 12-year-old sister, who started 8 days after her arrival in Tucumán, presented a flu-like picture with fever of 37.5°C to 38°C, which self-limited in 20 days.

The 9-year-old girl, 20 days after her arrival in Tucumán, started with fever, which lasted for a week. Finally, the youngest, aged 1 year, had a fever of 38°C to 39°C, which started 8 days after her arrival in Tucumán and progressed for 10 days with general symptoms and night sweats that subsided in a few days. Chest X-rays of the four sisters showed no abnormalities. These four sisters were seen by different clinicians and ENT specialists with diagnoses of pharyngitis or respiratory virosis and did not attend the consultation with the first of the patients described, as the parents and physicians considered them to have independent and unrelated aetiological conditions. Only the first of the patients presented developed a clinical picture with important repercussions on the general condition, unlike the other sisters, which led to a specialised consultation.due to the possibility of fungal aetiology, in particular H. capsulatum or Coccidiodes posadasii, Prof. Dr. Ricardo Negroni, from the Mycology Unit of the Hospital de Infecciosas "F. J. Muñiz" Infectious Diseases Hospital, CABA. Blood samples were taken from the five sisters for serological tests with Histoplasma capsulatum var. capsulatum and Coccidiodes posadasii antigens. The antigens used were unpurified metabolic reagents of the mycelial form, obtained by filtration of the growth of both fungi in liquid media, according to a published technique. Agar gel immunodiffusion and complement fixation reactions were performed following procedures recommended in previous studies. Skin tests were performed according to the Mantoux technique, with metabolic histoplasmin and coccidiodin obtained from the mycelial forms of both fungi, grown on the asparagine-salt medium described by Smith. The antigens were provided by the Mycology Centre of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Buenos Aires; the histoplasmin used was identified as L63 and the coccidiodin was L73. These reagents were used in 1/100 dilution, except in the patient with erythema nodosum who was injected with 1/1000 dilutions of both antigens. Histoplasmin skin tests were positive in all five patients, with infiltrates ranging from 10 mm to 22 mm. The 13-year-old patient with erythema nodosum, in whom the 1/1000 dilution of histoplasmin was used, had 20 mm of induration. Coccidiodin skin tests were negative in all five sisters. Serological tests by agar gel immunodiffusion and histoplasmin complement fixation showed positive reactions in the 15-, 13- and 12-year-old girls, with titres ranging from pure serum to 1/4 dilution for immunodiffusion and 1/8 and 1/32 dilutions for complement fixation. Girls aged 9 and 1 years had negative serological reactions. Coccidiodin serological tests were negative in all cases.
None of the girls received antifungal treatment, were treated symptomatically and all were clinically cured. All five sisters were monitored for 2 years with no abnormalities observed. Both parents had no signs or symptoms to warrant further investigations.
