A 44-year-old man consulted for emesis four hours after ingesting oleander leaves infused for self-harming purposes. Personal history: depressive syndrome. Examination: good general condition, conscious and oriented. Blood pressure 128/78, heart rate 45 bpm, oxygen saturation 92% with FiO2 21%, body temperature 36.4oC. Cardiorespiratory auscultation: rhythmic tones at 45 bpm, preserved vesicular murmur. Abdomen normal. Extremities without oedema and with symmetrical pulses. Neurological examination without focality. Complementary tests: laboratory tests with normal renal and hepatic function; digoxinemia 0.3. Electrocardiogram: sinus bradycardia at 45 bpm. Discussion: Ingestion of plants containing cardiotonic glycosides can cause symptoms similar to those of digitalis intoxication. They are glycosylated steroids with a positive inotropic effect. In acute N. oleander poisoning, effects similar to those of digoxin poisoning appear, initially digestive and then tachy-bradyarrhythmias which may be associated with atrioventricular block. If the condition progresses, tachycardia, fibrillation or asystole may appear. Treatment and management is aimed at: administration of antiemetics, prevention of dehydration and monitoring. Gastric lavage and activated charcoal are techniques used, although studies have been conducted with contradictory results. Electrolyte disturbances, hypokalaemia or hyperkalaemia should be corrected. Bradyarrhythmias are treated with atropine or isoprenaline and in severe cases with transient pacing. Tachyarrhythmias have a worse prognosis and are more difficult to treat. Neither dialysis nor haemoperfusion have proven effective. Antibodies can be used in severe patients. Oleandrin is cross-reactive with digoxin so that false positive digoxinaemia levels can be detected in the patient's blood, although the relationship between digoxinaemia and true oleandrin levels is not linear. This lack of correlation is reflected in several cases found in scientific literature; therefore, the determination of olendrin by the methods used for plasma detection of digoxinaemia levels is not of relevant quantitative value, but confirms the suspicion of N. oleander intoxication. Several immunochemical methods have been described for the quantification of oleandrin, but not in all conventional laboratories is the determination possible; digoxinaemia levels are available, although as shown in the case presented here, the fact that they do not rise above the toxic level does not cancel out the occurrence of heart rhythm disorders.
