Sam is a 52-year-old male, ex-smoker, who denies any other cardiovascular risk factors. He has developed an unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil (T4bN2bM0) as a result of his past tobacco use. Currently undergoing radical treatment with cetuximab and radiotherapy. Asymptomatic from the cardiological point of view until the night of the day before the consultation, when he presented with central thoracic pain, oppressive and radiating to the back and neck, lasting a few hours. He denies having had fever or infectious symptoms. He consulted his primary care doctor who performed an electrocardiogram (ECG) in which they described an increase in the lower ST and high and low lateral ST, and was assessed by members of the Canary Islands Emergency Service (SUC) who informed the hospital of the diagnosis of inferolateral acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with a view to carrying out primary angioplasty. On arrival at the Emergency Department he was found to be hypotensive, so dopamine was started at a dose of 15 mcg/kg/min, and the Haemodynamics section was contacted for urgent catheterisation, so the cardiologist on duty went down to assess the patient. The ECG was repeated.
Physical examination revealed a poor general condition, with significant tachypnoea and arterial hypotension of 85/55 mmHg despite catecholamines and mild jugular venous insufficiency. Cardiac sounds are very diminished with no murmurs or friction rub. There is an erythematous lump on the neck, warm and painful on palpation.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests: no leukocytosis, normocytic normochromic anaemia of 9.7 mg/dL and acute renal failure with creatinine of 2.4 mg/dL. Hb: 13.3 g/dL, leukocytes 64,000, platelets 77x10^3/mcL. 
Echocardiography: global and segmental left ventricular function was preserved and severe pericardial effusion was detected with a maximum of 36 mm at the anterior level. It is dense, hyperechogenic and mottled. There were signs of haemodynamic compromise, with collapse of the left atrium and a slight collapse of the right ventricle.
Other complementary tests during admission: ECG: sinus rhythm at 100 bpm, normal PR, normal electrical axis, narrow QRS with generalised concave ST-elevation (I, II, III, aVF, V3-V6). 
Pericardial fluid culture and blood cultures: Streptococcus constellatum.
Chest CT with contrast: bibasal lung consolidations. To evaluate possible bronchoaspiration. Minimal right pleural effusion. Pneumopericardium with drainage catheter inside. Multiple hepatic abscesses in LHI. LOE in LHI in relation to abscess versus metastatic disease (not present in previous study). Rest normal, no mesenteric or retroperitoneal adenopathy.
Neck CT: favourable response of left tonsillar neoplasm and adenopathic conglomerates. Significant response with a decrease in the overall tumour volume of the neoplasm originating in the left lingual tonsil, with a residual necrotic lesion persisting at this level with a diameter of 24.8 + 30 mm, which protrudes towards the left lateral margin of the floor of the mouth.

EVOLUTION
It was decided to perform an urgent therapeutic pericardiocentesis in the haemodynamics room. Initially, 600 cc of foul-smelling, purulent fluid was extracted. After analysing the emergency fluid, it was found to be purulent and S. constellatum, which was also isolated from blood, was isolated. An aetiological study was completed with a CT scan of the chest and abdomen to identify the possible origin of the purulent collection, finding multiple large liver abscesses, in the culture of which different microorganisms grew, although they were also present in the oral microbiota: Gemella morbillorum and Parvimonas micra. In the first few days after drainage, the patient continued to require catecholaminergic support due to septic shock, so he was admitted to the ICU, where empirical intravenous antibiotic treatment was initially established, and subsequently adjusted to the antibiogram. Within a week of complete drainage of the fluid and despite optimal antibiotic treatment, the patient developed severe pericardial effusion again. Urgent pericardiocentesis and pericardial window were performed the following morning surgically by thoracoscopy.

DIAGNOSIS
Purulent pericarditis complicated by pericardial tamponade. Polymicrobial septic shock with liver abscesses.
Carcinoma of the tonsil T4N2bM0.
