A 43-year-old man whose only medical history was admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in December 2014, lasting 2 months, for septic shock of non-filarial origin with multi-organ failure, in the context of catarrhal symptoms, associated with polyserositis and rhabdomyolysis. During subsequent follow-up in outpatient Internal Medicine (IM) consultations, the only finding of interest was the presence in serum and urine of a monoclonal component in the gamma zone; in immunoelectrophoresis, IgG kappa paraprotein IgG.
In December 2015, she attended the emergency department reporting a 24-hour history of fever of 38°C, cough, asthenia and generalised arthromyalgia. On arrival he was haemodynamically stable, presenting after 24 hours with hypotension (BP 90/54), oedema in the lower limbs and oliguria; the rest of the physical examination was unremarkable. Blood tests: Hb 20 g/dL, Ht 56.5%, leukocytes 16900 (14400 neutrophils), creatinine 1.46 mg/dL, CRP 5.1 mg/dL, rest normal. After 12 hours, the clinical evolution remained poor, with generalised oedema, anuria and a marked decrease in blood pressure (BP 63/54), tachycardia (115 bpm) and hypothermia (To 35oC), with very similar laboratory findings except for an increase in leukocytosis (19000), lactate 6.6 mmol/L (previously normal), total protein 2.6 g/dL and albumin 1.5 g/dL. For this reason, he was admitted to the ICU, where, after failing to respond to diuretic treatment, haemofiltration was started, which could be withdrawn after 3 days following a good evolution. During his stay in the ICU, bilateral patchy infiltrates secondary to adult respiratory distress were observed on chest CT, as well as mild bilateral pleural effusion and minimal pericardial effusion on transthoracic echocardiography. In addition, various cultures were taken for microbiological analysis, all of which were negative, with only isolation of Influenza A virus in nasopharyngeal exudate.
Once the patient was stabilised, he returned to the IM ward with adequate diuresis and normalisation of analytical parameters. We then reviewed the previous admission to the ICU in December 2014 and found that the triad of haemoconcentration, hypoalbuminaemia and hypotension was also present at that time. All this, together with the already known presence of IgG-type paraprotein, supported the diagnostic suspicion of Systemic Capillary Leakage Syndrome, on this occasion secondary to Influenza A virus infection. Treatment was started with theophylline until serum concentrations of 10 to 20 mcg/mL and intravenous immunoglobulins on a monthly basis at high doses (initially 2 g/kg) with a gradual decrease thereafter, achieving clear symptomatic improvement during follow-up and no new outbreaks since then.
