Anamnesis
This is a male patient with a prenatal ultrasound diagnosis of bilateral hydronephrosis, born by induced labour at 38th week of gestation.

Treatment and evolution
The presence of bilateral ureterohydronephrosis up to the bladder outlet is verified postnatally by means of a new ultrasound scan.
Renal function in the first weeks is normal. The diuretic renogram shows a delay in the elimination of the radiotracer, with a right partial renal function of 31.3%. A cystography was performed, showing dilatation of the posterior urethra secondary to urethral valves.
After diagnosis, bladder catheterisation was performed.
A few days later, the patient began to develop a low-grade fever, so blood cultures were positive for Escherichia coli and urine cultures were positive for Enterococcus spp. Treatment was started and the patient improved clinically. After several weeks in hospital, thrush and mycosis appeared in the nappy area, which also resolved with appropriate treatment.
Surgical intervention was scheduled, but he suffered a new urinary tract infection at the age of 2 months, with fever and anorexia, which required hospitalisation. A urine systemic examination was performed with moderate bacteriuria and pyuria. The bladder catheter was replaced and empirical treatment was performed, as the urine culture was negative. On discharge, treatment with cotrimoxazole was prescribed as anti-infective prophylaxis. With clinical improvement and after a new negative culture, endoscopic resection of the posterior urethral valves was performed, and the bladder catheter was removed after 10 days.
In the first control ultrasound scan, one month after the operation (age 4 months), bilateral hydronephrosis was observed with abundant intraluminal echogenic content on the left with nodular morphology in calyceal groups suggesting fungus ball. Following this diagnosis, despite being asymptomatic, it was decided to admit him to hospital for observation and intravenous antifungal treatment. Cultures were taken, but were negative.
At the next check-up, a week after admission, the upper calyx balls disappeared, with one smaller ball remaining in the lower calyx. After 2 weeks of intravenous antifungal treatment and a new ultrasound check-up, the patient was discharged from hospital. Subsequent ultrasound scans showed the disappearance of the fungus ball and in the last control the decrease in hydronephrosis. Cystography at 6 months showed good voiding opening of the posterior urethra.
