This is a 28 year old male, habitual cannabis user, with a history of bicuspid aortic valve followed up by Cardiology for the last 7 years for moderate aortic insufficiency with mild deterioration in functional class, pending valve replacement. The patient came to the emergency department of our centre due to progressive dyspnoea of ten days' evolution, until becoming minimal effort. He also reported intense abdominal pain in the left hypochondrium and ipsilateral iliac fossa. He also presented with a feeling of dystrophy on the last day, with shivering, without fever. He had not consumed drugs parenterally nor had he undergone any type of procedure. In the emergency department, the patient was in fair general condition, with systolic blood pressure of 90 mmHg and a heart rate of 125 bpm, with a temperature of 38.3oC. Auscultation revealed a high-frequency protodiastolic murmur of decreasing intensity in the aortic focus, and bibasal crackles. The abdomen was painful on deep palpation, predominantly in the left hemiabdomen. The electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia without other alterations. Chest X-ray showed diffuse bronchovascular enhancement. Laboratory tests showed elevated CRP and leukocytosis with neutrophilia. Two sets of blood cultures were drawn and empirical antibiotic therapy was started with ampicillin, ceftriaxone and daptomycin. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was performed, which showed a bicuspid aortic valve with an image compatible with endocarditis vegetation on the lateral edge of the posterior commissure. A moderately dilated I.V. with severe aortic insufficiency is also observed. The pain resolved with conventional analgesia. Fever was relieved with paracetamol and antibiotic therapy and the patient stabilised. Abdominal CT scan showed multiple splenic infarcts and one in the left renal pole. Blood cultures were reported 24 hours later as Lactobacillus rhamnosus, the microorganism being sensitive to all antibiotics tested except vancomycin. Aortic valve replacement was performed 5 days after arrival at the emergency department, finding a bicuspid aortic valve with endocardial warts on the ventricular side of both leaflets, and a biological prosthetic valve was implanted without complications. On the ward, during the anamnesis, the patient acknowledged daily intake of probiotic dairy products. Finally, after six weeks of antibiotic therapy with ampicillin, the first 5 days associated with gentamicin, the patient was definitively discharged with NYHA functional class I.
