A 23-month-old male patient with a 20-day clinical picture of upper respiratory symptoms such as hyaline rhinorrhoea, nasal obstruction, mild odynophagia and coryza, which subsided spontaneously but with the appearance and persistence of asthenia, adynamia and intermittent febrile peaks of up to 39C°. She was admitted to the emergency department for the appearance of visible multiple lymphadenopathies, predominantly cervical. Five days before admission he presented marked hyporexia and progressive asthenia and adynamia. He was hospitalised on suspicion of mononucleoside syndrome and on the second day developed sudden right peripheral facial paralysis, for which he was referred to the Otorhinolaryngology department.

This was a previously healthy patient with no known pathological history; his relatives denied any history of otitis, otological disease or otic symptoms before or during the current illness. The father reported contact with ticks and deer in Mesitas del Colegio -rural area of Cundinamarca- one month prior to the consultation. On physical examination on admission he was tachycardic, febrile, with House-Brackmann VI right facial paralysis, bilateral otoscopy with opaque hypomobile opaque membranes with erythema, without inflammatory retroauricular signs. No visceromegaly and the rest within normal limits. The paraclinical report showed rapid tests for: EBV negative, CMG negative, Toxoplasma IgG negative. The haemogram showed: leukocytes (19000), neutrophils (54%), CRP (165) and normal CSF.

It was decided to perform an ear CT scan which showed hypertrophy of the tympanic and mastoid cavity mucosa due to soft tissue density material without other apparent alterations, auditory evoked potentials with bilateral conductive hypoacusis responses to 35db, so electroneuronography was performed which reported a total absence of right NC VII response on the fourth day after the onset of facial paralysis. With suspicion of Lyme disease, IV ceftriaxone at 100mg/kg/day and prednisolone at 1mg/kg/day were started.

Due to the clinical history, she presented physical examination with complete facial paralysis and electroneuronography with evidence of denervation greater than 98%, on the seventh day it was decided to perform an upward wall mastoidectomy with decompression of the second and third facial nerve and placement of an ipsilateral ventilation tube. Intraoperatively, the mastoid mucosa and tympanic cavity were found to be severely diseased with no purulent content. Satisfactory decompression was achieved and samples were sent for pathology and culture. 

The patient had a favourable evolution: febrile episodes ceased within 24 hours of surgery, there was a noticeable improvement in general condition with return of appetite, on the fifth postoperative day there was a slight improvement in the pattern of facial mobility given by slight movement of the labial commissure and, subsequently, by the eleventh day, complete ocular closure. Borrelia IgG was positive in 38 dilutions (normal value <5) and the patient was discharged on completion of 14 days of inpatient treatment with electromyography showing 5-10% recovery of buccal branch innervation and subsequently on outpatient control. After 15 days the patient showed marked clinical improvement House-Brackmann III-IV/VI. Three months after the onset of the condition, the patient presented complete ocular closure, movement of the lower third with asymmetry only at maximum effort and the onset of frontal mobilisation.
