BACKGROUND:
77-year-old woman, allergic to metamizole, and with medical history of arterial hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus (insulin-dependent), permanent atrial fibrillation and asmabronchial. Under follow-up by cardiology for rheumatic mitral valve disease with severe mitral stenosis operated by surgical commissurotomy in 1991 and later prosthetic valve replacement in 2007 using Carbomedics metal prosthesis no 27.During follow-up she also developed severe aortic valve stenosis without symptoms.She was on treatment with acenocoumarol, bisoprolol, furosemide, spironolactone,olmesartan, insulin and bronchodilators on demand.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
The patient attended the emergency department for colicky abdominal pain and fever of 38.2 oC,labelled acute gastroenteritis which resolved with conservative treatment on an ambulatory basis. Five days later, she returned to our centre with a new febrile peak and abdominal pain located in the left iliac fossa that required hospital admission for suspected acute diverticulitis. Bacteroides fragilis was isolated in two blood cultures and antibiotic treatment was prescribed with good subsequent evolution. Twenty days later, he was admitted again for a new febrile peak with positive blood cultures for the same pathogen; an abdominal CT scan showed diverticulosis with no signs of acute infection, so given his history, it was decided to perform an echocardiogram to rule out infective endocarditis (IE).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Temperature 38.3 oC. Blood pressure 105/70 mmHg. Heart rate 68 bpm. Conscious, oriented, well perfused. No Osler's nodules or Roth's spots on the skin. Increased jugular venous pulse with venous pulse under the mandibular angle at 90o with prominent "v" waves. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds at 74 bpm with systolic murmur 3/6 in the aortic focus and second sound abolished, radiating to the left sternal border and apex. Pulmonary auscultation: left basal hypoventilation. No oedema in the lower extremities.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ANALYTICS on admission: urea 0.36 g/l, creatinine 0.73 mg/dl; CKD-EPI 79.6 ml/min/1.73 m2, ions and transaminases without significant alterations. NT-proBNP 2,797 pg/ml. ESR 102 mm, Creactive protein 0.81 mg/dl. Haemogram: Hb 10.2 g/dl, Ht 30%, 13,900/mm3 (neutrophils 91.1%).
THORAX RADIGRAPHY: radiological cardiomegaly. Mid sternotomy sutures. Pinching of both costophrenic sinuses (greater on the left side). Prominent vascular bundles.
Haemocultures (x3): positive for Bacteroides fragilis.
Transesophageal echocardiography: severely dilated left atrium. Intact septum: atrial appendage occupied by an image suggestive of a thrombus with little echodense. Double hemidisc mitral prosthesis with good opening (gradients similar to previous studies); several eccentric intraprosthesis regurgitation jets are observed without flow reversal in the pulmonary veins. Two vegetative images implanted in the prosthetic annulus of 12 x 3 mm and 10 x 3 mm mobile, not interfering with the movement of the discs; no periannular abscesses were detected. Left ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophied with preserved ejection fraction and no segmental alterations. Thickened, trivalve aortic valve with significantly reduced effective area; no regurgitation. Dilated right chambers; reduced right ventricular contractility (TAPSE 14 mm). Thickened tricuspid valve with good opening and mobility; severe regurgitation. Moderate pulmonary hypertension. No pericardial effusion.

CLINICAL COURSE
With the diagnosis of infective endocarditis on prosthetic valve due to Bacteroides fragilis, treatment was started with metronidazole 500 mg/8 hours and amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 1000 mg/200mg/8 hours intravenous. The patient remained afebrile throughout admission, blood cultures were negative early and she progressed favourably from her slight cardiac decompensation with diuretic treatment. After 6 weeks of targeted intravenous antibiotic treatment, being haemodynamically stable and in good functional class, he was discharged from hospital.

DIAGNOSIS
Endocarditis on mitral metallic prosthesis due to anaerobes (Bacteroides fragilis) without associated prosthetic dysfunction. Bacteraemia due to Bacteroides fragilis of possible gastrointestinal origin. Diverticulosis without diverticulitis.
