Anamnesis
A 45-year-old male patient came to the urology department referred from the emergency department, where he had been 48 hours earlier with a picture labelled as acute epididymitis.
The patient reported a left testicular mass of 72 hours of evolution, non-painful and accompanied by fever up to 38 oC.

Physical examination
Examination revealed an extraordinarily hard, non-painful lump located in the upper pole and epididymis of the left testicle, about 2 cm in greatest diameter.

Additional tests
- Blood count, biochemistry and coagulation were normal.
- The emergency ultrasound was compatible with the first clinical suspicion of epididymitis, but the non-resolution of the inflammatory picture in 7 days made it necessary to repeat the directed imaging test, under the clinical suspicion of testicular neoplasia, performing a Doppler ultrasound, which showed a heterogeneous ultrasound lesion with hypervascularisation that could be compatible with a tumour process.
- Tumour markers (beta-HCG, AFP and LDH) were negative.
- The study was completed with an abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan that demonstrated the existence of retroperitoneal lymphadenopathies in pathological number and size.

Diagnosis
In view of the results, a malignant testicular tumour was considered as the first diagnostic possibility, with the consequent indication for radical orchiectomy.

Treatment
A left radical orchiectomy via the inguinal route with high cord clamping was performed for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. The operation was uneventful and the patient was discharged after 24 hours.

Evolution
The result of the testicular biopsy showed the presence of pseudotumoural inflammation, consisting mainly of plasma cells, with some lymphocytes and marked areas of fibrosis, with foci of endarteritis obliterans and epididymal extension.
Immunohistochemical techniques revealed a very dense presence of spirochetal bacteria (Treponema pallidum).
The findings were conclusive of syphilis (syphilitic orchitis).
There was also destruction of germ cells in the areas close to the lesion, with a focal granulomatous reaction, in which isolated spirochetes were also evident.
The patient subsequently confirmed his homosexuality as a risk factor for transmission. A serological test was performed to rule out the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases, all of which were negative, except obviously the serology linked to syphilitic disease.
The recommendations on the transmission of syphilis were subsequently carried out, the obligatory declaration of the disease was made to the health authorities and treatment was administered with a weekly intramuscular injection of intramuscular penicillin G benzathine 2.4 million for 3 weeks, subsequently verifying serological negativisation at 6 and 12 months after the antibiotic treatment, the manner in which monitoring of the patient affected by this stage of the disease is recommended.

Diagnosis
Syphilitic orchitis.
