The infectious diseases clinic of the University Hospital of Maracaibo, Zulia State, Venezuela, received a 10-year-old male schoolboy. Venezuela, a 10-year-old male schoolboy from Santa Cruz de Mara, a suburban area of the state. He is in a wheelchair due to cerebral palsy without mental retardation, who, according to his mother, 15 days after leaving hospital following surgery, presented severe intestinal cramps with abdominal distension, 'expelling' a larva with subsequent disappearance of the symptoms. This larva was observed in the toilet water when the patient defecated. The larva was taken to the Parasitology Laboratory of the School of Bioanalysis of the University of Zulia and, based on its morphological characteristics, it was identified as a larva of Eristalis tenax (Linnaeus) (Diptera: Syrphidae). Parasitological examination of faeces was ordered, where vacuolated forms of Blastocystis hominis were observed (no treatment was recommended).

One year later, the patient returned to the clinic with severe abdominal cramps accompanied by bladder incontinence and increased appetite for 5 days, accompanied by headaches and pasty or diarrhoeic bowel movements with mucus in unspecified numbers for two days and accompanied by 'expulsion' of larvae (again observed in the toilet water). The larva was again identified as Eristalis tenax, but on this occasion, in addition to the coproparasitological examination, a stool culture was requested, and Mebendazole 5cc bid for 3 days was prescribed. The stool examination showed no evolutionary forms of enteroparasites and the stool culture indicated Salmonella serological group E, for which antimicrobial treatment was administered.

It was decided to extend the epidemiological survey carried out at the beginning on the patient, and for this reason the home and the characteristics of its surroundings were investigated. From the beginning, the mother always expressed the difficulty that the child could have ingested the eggs or larvae of the fly, as strict control is maintained over the preparation of the child's food, precisely because of the motor difficulties he suffers from. In relation to water, she said that they usually drink it after it has been boiled. In the course of the survey, the child's mother reported the proximity of a sewage tank near the toilet and the presence of some 'little wasps' hanging around there. It was decided to open the manhole (the lid of which was broken) and a large number of adults, larvae and pupae of Eristalis tenax were collected from the site. 
