The patient, a 43-year-old male, came to our hospital with a fever of five days' evolution together with pain in the right hemiabdomen. He had no medical history of interest, and had only been admitted on one previous occasion due to a perianal fistula. He was not undergoing regular treatment and had no known drug allergies. He had a smoking habit of one pack a day, but did not consume alcohol or other intoxicants. She had no pets and denied recent exposure to animals. He also reported no risky sexual activities. The patient worked as an agricultural engineer, frequently travelling abroad for work. The symptoms started on the return flight after a trip to California, where he had stayed for three days. During his stay, the patient had slept in a hotel, had no contact with animals or known insect bites, and had not eaten raw products. On that flight, he started with a fever of up to 39oC together with sweating, chills and intermittent pain in the right hemiabdomen. He reported no urinary or respiratory symptoms at the time, although he had dark urine colouring. Once back in Spain, the patient attended the emergency department of our centre due to persistent fever, but after a normal physical examination and improvement with symptomatic treatment, he was discharged. However, two days later, as the fever did not abate, he consulted again and was admitted to the Infectious Diseases Department for further investigation. At that time, the patient was in good general condition, with a temperature of 38oC and normal vital signs.

Physical examination revealed scleral jaundice, with pain on palpation of the epigastrium and right hemiabdomen, with positive Blumberg's and Murphy's signs, indicative of peritoneal irritation. She had a small wound with no signs of superinfection on her right hand, which she reported had been caused by a strawberry plant a fortnight earlier.

Laboratory tests showed normal levels of electrolytes, calcium, creatinine, glucose and urea. The haemogram revealed lymphopenia of 250 x103 cells/μL and cholestasis pattern with total bilirubin of 2.59 mg/dl, GOT of 71.50 U/L, GPT of 73.60 U/L and C-reactive protein (CRP) 264.24mg/l. The plain abdominal X-ray showed no notable abnormalities.

Differential diagnosis.
In the case of a patient with fever and abdominal pain after a recent trip, the diagnostic process will consider whether or not the infection is related to the trip itself, as well as the common causes of infection that are distributed worldwide in developed countries1,2 . At the beginning of the diagnostic process, the severity of the condition should be assessed, which will determine the need for hospitalisation, as well as the possible risk of transmission. It is important to note that there are other non-infectious pathologies that may also be accompanied by fever, such as thrombophlebitis or pulmonary embolism in the "economy class syndrome", or drug-induced fever. Therefore, in this case, within the differential diagnosis of a patient with fever and acute onset abdominal pain, "common" or non-travel-related causes should be ruled out, considering liver, spleen and biliary tract diseases, such as acute cholecystitis (lithiasis or alliasis), or acute cholangitis, as well as hepatic or splenic abscess, or septic thrombophlebitis. Other gastrointestinal diseases that should be ruled out are acute appendicitis, acute diverticulitis and ischaemic colitis. The presence of a possible intra-abdominal abscess with secondary peritonitis should also be considered. However, taking into account the epidemiological background of the trip, which was not to a developing country, and the short incubation period (the symptoms appeared during the return flight), with digestive symptoms, the possibility of leptospirosis or acute hepatitis A and B should be considered. In addition, given that the patient had been in a rural environment, given the risk of arthropod or tick bites, rickettsiosis, borreliosis and Q fever should be ruled out. Other diseases to consider in a patient with febrile syndrome, abdominal pain and a recent trip are malaria, dengue and yellow fever in the case of mosquito bites; and trypanosomiasis, leishamiasis and bartolenosis in the case of a fly bite. The risk of these diseases will be determined by the origin of the traveller and the incubation time. In the case of our patient, the origin of California does not constitute a risk area for the contagion of these diseases. If the patient had consumed unsafe water or raw food, it would be necessary to rule out enterobacterial infections such as Salmonella spp. or parasitic infections, although he did not present eosinophilia: helminths (Ascaris spp, Trichinella spp, Taenia solium...) and protozoa (Toxoplasma, Entamoeba histolytica...). It would also be necessary to consider the diagnosis of listeriosis and salmonellosis, which are more likely in the case of consumption of unpasteurised dairy products. Our patient had initially denied eating raw food or drinking water. Finally, although the patient did not report contact with animals, the fact that he came from a rural and forestry area should be considered in the differential diagnosis of entities such as brucellosis, tularaemia and plague, among others.

Evolution
On admission, blood cultures were taken and treatment was started with ceftriaxone 1 gram intravenous (iv) daily, metronizadol 500 mg iv every 8 hours and doxycycline 100 mg orally every 12 hours. Serology for Rickettsia spp, Coxiella spp. (ELISA), as well as cytomegalovirus (CMV), hepatitis A and B, Epstein Barr virus (EBV), all of which were negative. An abdominal CT scan without contrast (abdominal CT scan without contrast: presence of gas in the portal venous system and splenomegaly of 17 cm in diameter, with two non-specific nodular hypodense images of approximately 1 and 1.5 cm) was performed, which showed gas in the portal venous system, affecting practically the entire left hepatic lobe, part of the right, as well as some mesenteric vessels, a finding that could be related to pylephlebitis. In addition, there was splenomegaly of 17 cm in diameter, with two non-specific nodular hypodense images of approximately 1 and 1.5 cm, respectively, which could correspond to two abscesses. A tubular image with wall thickening and increased density was evident in the hypogastrium, which was reported as probable Meckel's diverticulitis. After 24 hours the patient's clinical condition worsened, with persistent fever, abdominal pain and elevated inflammatory parameters. For this reason, he was evaluated by the general surgeons and urgent surgery was decided. It was decided to perform exploratory laparoscopy, finding purulent free fluid in both subphrenic and Douglas spaces, with an image of diverticula about 30 cm long in the proximity of the ileocaecal valve, inflamed and in intimate contact with the ileum wall, which nevertheless appeared to have an independent meso. It was decided to perform an ileal resection (removal of the piece to perform the extracorporeal anastomosis, appreciating the duplicated and inflamed intestinal segment) including the inflamed intestinal segment with latero-lateral anastomosis through a Pfanestiel incision to assist the laparoscopic approach. No alterations were seen at the splenic level.
Intraoperative cultures were all negative and the biopsy of the surgical specimen showed a significant, ulcerative and congestive inflammatory infiltration of a segment of small bowel in relation to an intestinal duplicity. After surgery the patient remained stable with improvement of inflammatory parameters. Doxycycline was discontinued, continuing treatment with ceftriaxone and metronidazole at equal doses for two more weeks.
The patient experienced a complicated postoperative period with paralytic ileus and the appearance of an enterocutaneous fistula, which subsequently resolved. After four weeks of hospitalisation, the patient was discharged, being reviewed two weeks later in the outpatient clinic, with good general condition and normal laboratory tests.

Final diagnosis
Portal pneumatosis and pylephlebitis, secondary to inflammation of intestinal duplication.
