Anamnesis
Male farmer, 75 years old, allergic to NSAIDs, with a personal history of dyslipidaemia and COPD. He consulted the doctor for the presence of an ulcerated lesion on the back of the right hand, which had developed over a 3-month period and was progressively growing, following an accidental trauma with a plough while he was working in the fields. Subsequently, other smaller subcutaneous lesions appeared progressively, advancing proximally, on the right forearm and arm. No fever or other associated systemic symptoms.

Physical examination
There was an ulcerous, crusted, indurated plaque with sero-purulent discharge, 2 cm in diameter, located on the dorsum of the right hand. There were three other nodular lesions, with an erythematous surface and a diameter of one centimetre, on the ipsilateral forearm and arm, following the lymphatic tract.

Complementary examinations
In view of these findings, culture and incisional biopsy of the lesion on the dorsum of the hand were performed for microbiological and histopathological study respectively.
The histopathological study showed marked irregular, pseudoepitheliomatous epidermal hyperplasia with multiple dermal and intraepidermal microabscesses and a mixed cellular inflammatory infiltrate at the dermal level consisting of lymphocytes, plasma cells, histiocytes and some eosinophils. In the centre of the microabscesses there were numerous nuclear fragments with cellular detritus that appeared to be expelled through tracts or sinuses towards the epidermal surface. With the PAS technique, at the level of the microabscesses, very few and doubtful images were observed that could correspond to fungal spores, although they were not conclusive.
The microbiological study proved to be inconclusive, as Sporothrix globosa, which is part of the Sporothrix schenckii complex, was isolated in the culture.

Diagnosis
The data obtained in the anamnesis, together with the physical examination and the complementary tests established the diagnosis of sporotrichosis.

Treatment
Given the clinical suspicion of sporotrichosis, prior to microbiological confirmation, empirical treatment with Itraconazole 200 mg/day for 12 weeks was started.

Evolution
A very good evolution was observed after four weeks of treatment with complete resolution of the lesions 6 weeks later.
