A 77-year-old patient attended the emergency department 5 days ago with a rice grain-shaped skin lesion on the left forearm, afebrile. Personal history of hypertension, hyperuricaemia, low back pain, obstructive sleep apnoea, acute confusional syndrome 2o to severe hyponatraemia resolved. In the anamnesis the patient refers that a pruritic millimetric papular lesion of the same characteristics appeared on the scrotum 1 year ago. Examination and complementary tests: on the external surface of the left forearm there was an ulcerated lesion measuring 3.5-4 cm in maximum diameter, with poorly defined borders, mameloned, friable, easily bleeding, with no purulent exudate. Tumefactive periphery with no evidence of associated lymphangitis. No palpable associated lymphadenopathy. Laboratory tests: normocytic-hypochromic anaemia with neutrophilia (71%) with CRP 3.23, negative Epstein-Barr serology, negative cytomegalovirus serology, negative LUES serology (0.21), negative toxoplasma AIAIgM serology (0.30). Ulcer exudate 1st sample: Staphylococcus aureus. Ulcer exudate 2nd sample: no bacterial growth, negative fungi, no BAAR observed. Biopsy: skin (dorsum of left forearm/b. punch): Skin sample showing an epidermis with a crust consisting of fibrin, inflammatory cells and cellular debris, underlying which there is acanthosis and horny pseudoglobus, being at all times well demarcated from the underlying dermal connective tissue where there is a proliferation of capillary buds similar to those of the stasis dermis, accompanied by superficial and deep chronic inflammatory infiltrate with lymphocytes and some eosinophils, where no granulomatous formations, not fungi, are observed. Differential diagnosis: localised lesions: ulcer 2o to underlying infection, folliculitis, Sweet's disease, warfarin-induced necrosis, ulcer 2o to underlying neoplasm, arthropod bite, vasculitis (e.g. Wegwner's granulomatosis). Associated such as hepatitis, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, myeloma, polycythaemia vera, BehÇet's disease, leukaemia. Clinical judgement: probable pyoderma gangrenosum.
