Personal history and current medical history
This is a 58-year-old man with a personal history of hypertension and hyperuricaemia with gout crisis. Known chronic renal failure since July 2012. L5-S1 disc herniation. Admitted from CCEE Infectious with a diagnosis of fever of unknown origin of prolonged duration. For five months he had had a low-grade fever of up to 38oC, of intermittent onset, with no symptoms due to equipment. No relevant epidemiological history except contact with a correctly vaccinated dog. On the day of admission, she consulted again, reporting continued fever of up to 2-3 days per week, with mild epigastralgia and some isolated vomiting in recent days, so it was decided to admit her for further investigation.

Physical examination
On arrival he was in good general condition, conscious and oriented. Good hydration of skin and mucous membranes. Eupneic at rest, blood pressure 125/68 mmHg. No palpable adenopathy or goitre. Cardiac auscultation was rhythmic, without murmurs or extratonos. Pulmonary murmur was good with no additional pathological sounds. The abdomen was soft, depressible, without megaliths, with slight discomfort on palpation at the epigastric level. No oedema in the lower limbs or signs of deep vein thrombosis. No neck stiffness or skin lesions. ENT examination with no findings.

Initial complementary tests
The tests performed on our patient in the Infectious Diseases ward were as follows: Blood count: haemoglobin 11 mg/dL, haematocrit 35%, mean corpuscular volume 93.6 fL, leukocytes 6890 cells/mm3 with normal differential formula and normal platelets, erythrocyte sedimentation rate 59 mm/h. Biochemistry: creatinine 1.23 mg/dl, urea 53.3 mg/dl, liver function, pancreatic function, lipid profile and thyroid hormones within normal range. Immunoglobulins and proteinogram normal. Rheumatoid factor IgM, antinuclear antibodies, tumour markers and smear negative. Serial blood cultures and faecal occult blood negative. Rose Bengal, toxoplasma serology, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, luetic serology, HIV, atypical mycobacteria, Bartonella, leishmania, Legionella and pneumococcus antigenuria negative. As for imaging tests, an ultrasound scan of the abdomen was initially performed, showing probable hepatic steatosis, simple cyst (18*15 mm) in segment II, III and IV. Enlarged prostate with calcification in its thickness secondary to previous prostatitis. In the chest/abdomen CT scan, the most noteworthy finding was the presence of supracardial mediastinal adenopathies (the largest at the pretracheal and retrocaval level with an axis of 8.5 mm, other smaller ones at the prevascular level and at the level of the aortopulmonary window. Bilateral hilar adenopathies (the largest on the left) with an axis of 1 cm without parenchymal alteration. At the abdominal level there was slight hepatomegaly with small cystic formations compatible with biliary cysts, slight splenomegaly. Small retrocrural, mesenteric and retroperitoneal adenopathies of insignificant size. Echocardiography showed no evidence of vegetations. A referral was made to haematology for evaluation of the bone marrow study, due to the presence of generalised lymphadenopathies, but this was not carried out as there was no impression of an infiltrative process due to the peripheral blood findings. A blood test was requested to study anaemia.

Initial evolution
During his admission to the ward he had a favourable evolution, with a fever peak of 38oC on only one occasion. On discharge, asymptomatic and afebrile, referred to the Infectious Diseases Department for evolutionary control, pending the results of the pathological anatomy of the biopsy, scheduling the study according to the findings.

Initial clinical judgement
Prolonged intermittent fever with no focal point and generalised lymphadenopathy under study. Duodenal mucosal lesions pending pathological diagnosis.

Differential diagnosis
When faced with a patient with prolonged fever of unknown (defined, as occasional fever greater than 38.3°C for three weeks or greater than 37.5°C consistently for 2 weeks without diagnosis after tests have been performed during one week of hospitalisation) we have to take into account four groups in terms of aetiologies:
- Infectious: abdominal and pelvic abscesses, biliary tract infection, tuberculosis, endocarditis, prostatitis, spondylitis, osteomyelitis, dental/brain abscesses, cytomegalovirus infections, Epstein-Barr virus, Whipple's disease, brucellosis, Q fever, murine typhus, yersinia infection, chlamydia, mycoplasma, legionella, leptospirosis, borreliosis, malaria, visceral leishmaniasis. ..
- Neoplasms: atrial myxoma, colon carcinoma, Kaposi's sarcoma, lung carcinoma, multiple myeloma, sarcoma, lymphomas, liver tumours, pancreatic carcinoma, hypernephroma, disseminated carcinomatosis, metastasis, lymphomatoid granulomatosis .... Systemic disease: large cell arteritis, Still's disease, drug hypersensitivity vasculitis, panarteritis nodosa, systemic lupus, mixed connective tissue disease, ankylosing spondylitis, Takayasu's arteritis, Behçet's disease, Wegener's granulomatosis...
- Miscellaneous: Sarcoidosis, idiopathic granulomatous hepatitis, inflammatory bowel disease, familial Mediterranean fever, drugs, acute alcoholic hepatitis, thyroiditis/hyperthyroidism, occult haematomas, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, Kikuchi disease, Castleman's disease, hypertriglyceridaemia, Fabry and Gaucher disease, central hyperthermia, factitious and self-induced fever, circadian rhythm disorders...
In our case, different aetiologies were ruled out, based on the patient's history, clinical manifestations by organs and apparatus, and according to the results obtained from both laboratory and imaging techniques.

Final diagnostic test
Upper endoscopy: stomach, pylorus and bulb within normal limits. Moderate oedema with multiple whitish rice-grain deposits in the second duodenal portion. A biopsy was taken.

Final diagnosis
Given the results of the duodenal biopsy, we can conclude that we are dealing with a case of Whipple's disease.

Final evolution
Once the anatomical pathology results were conclusive, the patient was informed and admission was decided to start intravenous treatment with Ceftriaxone (2 g iv/day) for 2 weeks, followed by oral treatment with Trimetropin-Sulfamethoxazole (160/800 mg 2 tablets/12 hours). The patient has been reviewed in consultation, being the last one in April 2013 (after 14 months of treatment) finding the patient asymptomatic and remission of fever, it is decided to end antibiotic treatment, it is planned to carry out a control Upper Digestive Endoscopy in July 2013.
