A 52-year-old man, farmer by profession, was admitted for cellulitis and general malaise. History: hypertension, chronic renal insufficiency, dyslipidaemia.
The patient consulted because approximately 4 days earlier, while cleaning a dry ditch, he had noticed a sting on the back of the right thigh without being able to identify the insect. After 24 hours he presented a pale area of approximately 2-3 cm with well-defined borders, for which he was prescribed intramuscular methylprednisolone. After 48 hours an erythematous and painful area appeared around the lesion. On the third day he presented more erythema and pain with a dysthermic sensation and was prescribed amoxicillin and clavulanic acid without improvement, for which he consulted the emergency department. Ultrasound examination of the muscle showed marked thickening with increased echogenicity of the subcutaneous fat and a cobblestone image in superficial planes. The haemogram showed 8700 leucocytes (81.5% neutrophils), Hb15.7 mg/dl and 120,000 platelets. Biochemistry showed CRP 24 mg/L, creatinine 37/1.4 mg/dl. Given the torpid evolution of the lesion, the patient was admitted to surgery and treatment was started with piperacillin tazobactam. After 48 hours the patient consulted the Internal Medicine Department due to poor evolution of the lesion. On examination, an erythematous, warm and painful lesion on the posterior and inner aspect of the right thigh extending from the popliteal fossa to the gluteal fold and the root of the right lower limb, with a central whitish, depressed lesion measuring approximately 2 x 3 cm.
After making a differential diagnosis with compatible lesions, it was concluded that it could be a cutaneous loxocellism, which was confirmed with the evolution of the lesion. Loxocelism is poisoning caused by brown recluse spiders (Loxosceles spp.), which are arachnid species that can cause necrotic arachnoidism. They cause conditions associated with localised pain, erythema and oedema, followed by the development of necrosis. However, the specific mechanisms by which Loxosceles venom exerts these harmful symptoms are poorly understood. In the Mediterranean area, the Rufescens species is the most common and is generally found in dark places and causes only cutaneous symptoms.
The evolution of our patient's lesions supported this diagnosis, since a few days later, despite the fact that the perilesional cellulitis had improved with antibiotic therapy, a vesicle appeared, which later turned into a black eschar that ulcerated, an evolution that corresponds to the typical evolution of loxocele lesions. In addition, the complementary examinations (serology, autoimmunity, blood culture and culture of the bulla fluid) were negative for other entities.
We reviewed the treatment and management of this condition, which focused on local measures such as wound cleaning, local cold, elevated position of the affected limb, analgesia, tetanus prophylaxis and antibiotics if superinfection was suspected. In addition to treatment for prevention of necrosis where there is no clear evidence as to which approach would be advisable (dapsone, tetracyclines, antihistamines or hyperbaric oxygen). In our case, local measures and antibiotic therapy were used for suspected superinfection as well as dapsone (50 mg / 12 hours as an initial dose followed by 100 mg/12 hours for 10 days). The patient required outpatient nursing care every 48 hours for approximately 1.5 months with progressive improvement of the lesion.
