A 20-year-old male patient was referred from the local hospital after presenting with a psychotic disorder of several days' evolution.

Family history
No psychiatric family history


Personal somatic history
There is no relevant organic history.

Personal history and toxic habits
No history of psychiatric symptoms during childhood or puberty. He is the second son of an upper-middle class family with good family relations. He has always been fond of sports, nature and animal care and has a good interpersonal relationship. At the age of 14, he started using joints with his group of friends. At first only at weekends, at the age of 16 he was using every day. At 17 and 18 years of age, he was consuming 4 to 5 joints a day on a daily basis and started to have problems with his studies. He had no perception of risk. He finished high school and started university studies, increasing his consumption up to 10 to 12 joints a day. At this point he started dealing hashish, selling it to his friends, his friends' friends and in this way he was able to maintain his consumption and the economic cost of it. During the two years he was at university he did not pass any subjects and little by little his appearance became more and more neglected, slow, with a tendency to disorder and neglect of hygiene, and above all he did nothing, he describes that he was "sick all day long". At home, the problems were increasing, because his parents could not understand this change in his behaviour, which he denied with constant lies, leading to a growing estrangement from his family environment with oppositional behaviour in relation to family rules. He decided to go to study away from his family and his city. A few months later his consumption was 15 joints a day and he no longer even tried to go to school. Little by little he begins to feel strange, with feelings of strangeness, very restless and with incoherent speech. He shows behavioural alterations, changing abruptly from calmness to restlessness and sleeps badly. His friends were frightened by his attitude and called his parents, who admitted him for 15 days. He is diagnosed with cannabis-induced psychotic disorder with delusional ideas. He was treated with antipsychotics and anxiolytics with a good response to treatment. After this admission, the patient had no awareness of illness and denied everything that had happened. He maintained that during his admission to the hospital there were people in other beds who watched him and informed his family. Nothing had happened to "him". A few months after this episode, he restarted using cannabis. His parents began to notice changes in his behaviour, consisting mainly of childishness and again neglect of personal hygiene and tidiness, he forgot everything and laughed for no reason, his consumption increased in less than two months, reaching 15 to 20 joints a day. Faced with family problems and an oppositional attitude towards his parents, he left home to go to another city with some friends. Two months later, he again had delirious experiences of self-reference and prejudice, and noticed that he was being talked about on television. He also noticed that his friends were talking about him and he had to be admitted to hospital again for a month with antipsychotic and anxiolytic medication, but the delirious experiences subsided after the third week of his admission and he was again diagnosed with a cannabis-induced psychotic disorder. After this second admission, he was referred to our department.

Psychopathological examination
He came to the clinic conscious and poorly self-oriented and allopsychically oriented. Approachable and cooperative. His attitude was adequate, although a bit puerile and suspicious. He had a relative awareness of illness. His appearance was adequate, clean and neat. He presented temporary cognitive deficits (he did not remember well how long he had been admitted, nor was he able to remember exactly what happened in the weeks prior to his admission, having a vague and confused idea), he found it difficult to attend during the interview. His mood was slightly anxious. He did not show psychotic productivity or alterations in the course or content of his thoughts. No self-referential delusions or delusions of harm. No insomnia or psychomotor restlessness. No self- or heteroaggressiveness. No ideas of death or structured autolytic ideation and/or planning.

Complementary examinations
Biochemistry and haemogram - normal Urine toxins - negative. In the personality study carried out (IPDE, DSM-IV), obsessive, avoidant and paranoid traits stood out fundamentally.

Diagnostic judgement Cannabis-induced psychotic disorder (ICD 10: F12.5). Cannabis-induced psychotic disorder with delusional ideas of onset during intoxication DSM IV-TR: F12.51 (292.11)

Treatment
The patient was followed up and continued with the pharmacological treatment prescribed at hospital discharge with antipsychotics (amisulpride 200 mg) and anxiolytics (clonazepam 0.5mg). Individual psychotherapy was prescribed.


Evolution
Little by little, the patient slowly improved. He maintained total abstinence from THC, significantly increasing interpersonal and intrafamilial communication, managing to carry out future projects and gradually recovering his relationship with his family, especially with his parents, but being absolutely unable to carry out activities that had to do with memory and attention. He was unable to study, memorise anything, or even concentrate for a short period of time, but for a few months he agreed to attend training courses and went out of the house frequently. He got back in touch with non-consuming friends he had lost years ago and started a relationship with a girl. In this respect, the acceptance of his group of friends and the partner gave him security and allowed him to work with him on a change in his previous lifestyle and a mature attitude towards his life and his future. Nine months after this second episode, the patient was more stable and enrolled in specific animal care courses, which he had always enjoyed. His cognitive level had improved significantly and he had a very positive attitude towards his family and environment. He had no psychotic symptoms, no delusional ideation and had not been taking medication for three months. The urine toxicity tests that the family has continued to carry out on him up to the present time continue to be negative.
