This is a male infant, aged 11 months, with no previous history of interest, who consulted for several days because he presented with deviation of the oral commissure to the left, and during crying he was unable to complete closure of the right eyelid. As the only trigger, she reported catarrhal symptoms for the last week, and was afebrile. No history of recent vaccination. Physical examination showed good general condition, normal colour, well perfused, eupneic and with normal cardiopulmonary auscultation; and in addition to the data described above, neurological data showed good muscle tone, without alteration of reflexes, with incipient gait appropriate for his age. Otoscopy showed very erythematous eardrums, not bulging.

In the case of a patient with facial nerve palsy, it is necessary to consider whether it is a central lesion (upper motor neuron lesion) or a peripheral lesion (lower motor neuron), which will be distinguished by the involvement of the forehead muscles in peripheral facial palsy, which are unharmed in central facial palsy due to their bilateral innervation. Most cases are idiopathic. In second place in frequency in the paediatric age group is otitis media, followed by other infections caused by microorganisms such as HSV-1 virus, VZV (Ramsay-Hunt syndrome), Borrelia (Lyme disease)... Other non-infectious entities include traumatic causes (fracture of the skull), tumours (neurinoma, leukaemias, astrocytoma, etc.), vascular causes, myopathies, etc.

Oral corticosteroids were started, he was assessed by Otorhinolaryngology, implanting transtympanic drainage, and given the persistence of the symptoms on the 3rd day, an MRI was requested which showed an increase in size of the left half of the bulb and left inferior cerebellar peduncle, without contrast uptake; and hyperintensity in T2 and FLAIR sequence of periventricular white matter and subcortical subtly.

Suspecting possible encephalomyelitis, EEG was requested, which was normal, as well as CSF cytobiochemistry, with negative oligoclonal bands; and high-dose IV corticosteroids were started. She continued without improvement and a new symptom appeared as inspiratory stridor, with polypnoea, abundant sialorrhoea, PCA with bilateral subcrepitant sounds, as well as occasional choking. Afebrile at all times and without elevation of acute phase reactants. A chest X-ray was performed.

At this time, with the data provided, the most likely diagnosis and most appropriate management could be:
a. It is nosocomial viral laryngitis, probably due to parainfluenzae. I request PCR for respiratory viral pathogens and start nebulised budesonide.
b. Given his age, it may be foreign body aspiration. The airway should be checked with fibroscopy.
c. Probably bronchospasm. Salbutamol in chamber.
d. Could be right-sided pneumonia with effusion. I order a chest ultrasound and start high-flow oxygen therapy.
e. Stridor may be related to peripheral paralysis. Repeat neuroimaging.

Of these possibilities, the most likely diagnosis seems to be stridor.

Repeat MRI shows thickening and hyperintensity of the lesion observed in the bulb and peduncle, which has increased in size, with diffusion restriction. A mass spectroscopy study was completed with a pattern suggestive of a low-grade brainstem glial tumour.

The swallowing study showed problems with fluid intake and an increase in the oral phase of thicker textures. Stridor continues to progress, with severe respiratory distress (increased tachypnoea (55 rpm), use of accessory musculature with tugging at all three levels, desaturation despite nasal O2 goggles at 4 Lpm), more sialorrhoea and more frequent episodes of choking. A chest X-ray was performed.

Due to the high risk of aspiration and signs of impending respiratory failure, orotracheal intubation with TET No 4"5 is decided, with connection to mechanical ventilation. A volume control mode was used, programming a tidal volume (VT) of 7 ml/kg, in which, on performing an inspiratory prolongation manoeuvre, we obtained the screen on the ventilator.

After informing the family jointly with Neurosurgery and Oncology of the prognosis, a biopsy was performed to obtain an anatomopathological diagnosis, which showed histopathology compatible with a grade II diffuse astrocytoma of the brainstem, which continued to progress in the imaging tests, presenting an infiltrative pattern. The family was informed of the possibility of starting palliative chemotherapy in order to improve the laryngo-pharyngeal dysfunction, which they accepted after reaching a second opinion at the reference centre.

A first extubation attempt was made, which failed, and it was decided to postpone the second attempt after the first cycle of chemotherapy as a rescue with previous corticotherapy, which was also unsuccessful.

A tracheostomy was performed with placement of a 4"5 PED cannula by ENT, without incident, and a home respirator was requested, instructing family members in its use and in CPR techniques. Prophylaxis against Pneumocystis was started. He continued palliative chemotherapy with monitoring by Oncology until three months later (17 months of age) he was readmitted to the PICU for adenovirus pneumonia with superinfection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and associated bacteraemia due to Haemophilus influenzae (blood tests showed 3,710 leukocytes/mm3 and PCR 501 mg/L).  The cannula was changed to 5.5 PED, improving ventilation. There was a progressive improvement after starting antibiotic therapy, with better quality of her respiratory dynamics, allowing her to switch back to her home respirator within a week with good tolerance. He continues to present isolated episodes of desaturation related to apnoea due to breath holding spasms, which, as they become more frequent and have greater repercussions, require remonitoring with a self-inflating bag by his family, so oral piracetam, a derivative of gamma-amino-butyric acid, which has been shown to reduce their frequency in two randomised clinical trials, is associated with this treatment. Progressive worsening continued with palliative treatment, until four months later (21 months of age) she presented with an episode of sudden somnolence, unresponsive to painful stimuli, a tendency to bradycardia with high blood pressure, bilateral arreactive mydriasis pupils, poor general condition and pale cyanotic colouring, with a modified Glasgow Coma Scale for infants of 3 points.

The severity of the situation and the patient's prognosis led to the initiation of morphine, which was increased as ventilator assistance decreased. He was finally discharged accompanied by his family.
