A 53-year-old male patient of Spanish nationality, smoker and injecting drug user, with co-infection with HIV and HCV known for 20 years. He was on treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 200 mg, emtricitabine 200 mg and efavirenz 600 mg co-formulated once a day, although with poor adherence and erratic follow-up in consultations. He had been admitted three months earlier for a recurrence of pulmonary tuberculosis due to treatment abandonment, confirmed by the isolation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a bronchoalveolar lavage sample, sensitive to first-line antituberculosis drugs. At that time he had a CD4 cell count of 37 cells/mm3 and an HIV viral load (VL) of over 100,000 copies/ml. Anti-tuberculosis treatment was started with isoniazid 5 mg/kg, rifampicin 10 mg/kg and pyrazinamide 25 mg/kg, and prophylaxis for Pneumocystis jirovecii with co-trimoxazole 160/800 mg three days per week. The same ART regimen that had been abandoned in the previous month was resumed, as no previous resistance had been demonstrated and there were no interactions with the antituberculosis treatment. After this admission, the patient reported complete adherence to both therapies, corroborated by his family. At the last review (three weeks after discharge), he had 126 CD4/mm3 and an HIV CV of 1,130 copies/ml. The patient was readmitted for febrile syndrome, nausea and vomiting. He also reported involuntary urine leakage from the rectum for the past two months. He could identify it without difficulty because of its orange colour secondary to treatment with rifampicin.
On admission, the patient's body temperature was 37.7oC and the physical examination showed thinness and prostration. Pulmonary auscultation showed bibasal crackles and the abdominal examination was normal. Laboratory tests showed a mild leukocytosis of 12,000 cells/μl with 82% neutrophils, haemoglobin 12.3 g/dl, 211,000 platelets/μl, creatinine 1.3 mg/dl, gamma-glutamyl transferase 118 U/l and C-reactive protein 8.4 mg/dl. A chest X-ray showed emphysema with thickening of both pulmonary hilar cords and right hilar fibrous tracts, together with a cavitated pseudonodular image in the right upper lobe. Urinary tract ultrasound was requested and revealed no abnormalities. Given the high suspicion of enterovesical fistula (EVF) and the absence of another source of fever, a computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen showed multiple prostatic abscesses, inflammatory impaction and retraction of the seminal vesicles, and a small fistulous tract between the middle sigmoid colon and the left seminal vesicle, with thickening of the walls of the urinary bladder. It was decided to perform a cystoscopy which revealed the existence of a mamelonated plaque in the retrotrigone, suggestive of VEF, although the cystography did not reveal the presence of fistulous tracts. A colonoscopy was requested, in which no gross mucosal alteration or apparent drainage was found, although it was reported that the presence of a fistula could not be ruled out with absolute certainty. Also, puncture of the prostatic abscesses for microbiological study was unsuccessfully attempted. Urinalysis, urine sediment and urine culture (conventional and mycobacterial medium), as well as blood and stool cultures were negative. Urinary catheterisation was performed, which relieved the urine output at the rectal level. Given the high suspicion that the prostatic abscesses and the FEV were of tuberculous aetiology, it was decided to maintain the bladder catheter until a review in consultation.
The following month the patient was readmitted for further investigation due to gait instability and left hemiparesis. A CT scan of the brain with contrast showed two space-occupying lesions, a left frontoparietal lesion measuring 29 x 25 x 18 mm, with irregular morphology, hyperdense periphery and hypodense centre; and another lesion measuring 14 x 12 mm, with the same characteristics, both with intense perilesional vasogenic oedema and moderate mass effect on the left ventricular system. The study was completed with a brain MRI which demonstrated the necrotic aspect of the more cranial lesion. A biopsy of the more peripheral space-occupying lesion was performed, and systemic corticosteroids and empirical treatment for Toxoplasma gondii were prescribed, while maintaining anti-tuberculosis treatment.

Differential diagnosis
In summary, this is a severely immunocompromised HIV-infected patient with a recent diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis, for which he started ART and antituberculosis treatment together. Urine excretion from the rectum was suggestive of a VEF, supported by imaging and cystoscopy data.
In the differential diagnosis of a VEF, in the colovesical form, the following aetiologies should be considered: Neoplasms: colorectal carcinoma causes 20% of VEFs, but CT and colonoscopy excluded this diagnosis. Other pelvic neoplasms such as invasive prostate cancer or urothelial cancer were also excluded after testing.
Inflammatory diseases: Rectal Crohn's disease causes 10% of VEFs. The absence of small bowel lesions on CT scan and normal colonoscopy made this aetiology unlikely. Infections: complicated diverticulitis is the most frequent cause of VEF (70-90%). It presents as a septic picture with abdominal pain and defence, absent in our patient. CT usually demonstrates a peridiverticular or pelvic abscess, absent in our case. Abdominal actinomycosis, being an infection caused by a slow-growing oral and intestinal commensal bacterium, occurs in people with a history of surgery, neoplasia or visceral perforation in the previous months and is generally localised, with involvement of a single organ. Other rarer aetiologies of VEF include: typhoid fever, very rare in Spain, which usually presents with negative blood cultures; amebiasis, in patients with a history of stay in endemic areas; and syphilis, but this presentation would be extraordinarily rare in this entity and would be typical of homosexual patients1. Finally, the possibility of a tuberculous aetiology, despite anti-tuberculosis treatment, could not be excluded, as the patient may have presented from the outset with a disseminated form, initially silent, with intestinal and prostatic involvement, as evidenced by the emission of urine from the rectum. In immunocompetent patients, 60-80% of prostatic abscesses are caused by gram-negative bacilli, with Escherichia coli as the predominant organism, with Staphylococcus aureus being another possible agent in the presence of bacteraemia. However, in severely immunocompromised HIV-infected patients, we should consider other microorganisms, mainly mycobacteria (Mycobacterium avium complex and M. tuberculosis) and fungi (mainly Cryptococcus neoformans and Candida)2. Finally, the appearance of space-occupying lesions in the brain forces us to include other opportunistic infections in the differential diagnosis. In our patient, these lesions had a fronto-parietal location in contact with the corpus callosum, with contrast uptake and mass effect that secondarily caused clinical symptoms of intracranial hypertension. The differential diagnosis of cerebral space-occupying lesions in a severely immunosuppressed patient would include: Cerebral toxoplasmosis. It mainly presents with headache, fever and alterations in the level of consciousness that may be associated with focal neurological symptoms or even seizures. Its lesions are characterised by multiple lesions, mainly located at the frontotemporal level and ring contrast-enhancing.
Primary central nervous system lymphoma. This manifests with multiple or single lesions, usually periventricular or periependymal, which may be larger than 4 cm, which is less common in toxoplasmosis. Tuberculomas. These are granulomatous conglomerates that may be single or multiple, and in late stages appear encapsulated with peripheral enhancement. The most frequent clinical manifestation is intracranial hypertension. Other causes of brain abscesses in this context such as Aspergillus spp, Nocardia spp, Rhodococcus spp, Listeria spp, C. neoformans and Coccidioides immitis are much less frequent3 . We would rule out other opportunistic pathologies that do not present with mass effect, including progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, caused by JC virus, which causes multifocal areas of bilateral and asymmetric periventricular demyelination that usually do not contrast uptake, leading to rapidly progressive focal neurological symptoms; HIV encephalopathy, characterised by symmetrical subcortical lesions resulting in the clinical triad of memory loss, depressive symptoms and motor disturbances; and cytomegalovirus encephalitis, consisting of diffuse micronodular encephalitis with clinical features of delirium, confusion and motor disturbances.
Taking all this into account, the most likely disease that could explain the patient's findings would be disseminated tuberculosis. On the other hand, the presence of prostatic abscesses, VEGF and space-occupying lesions in the brain within 2-3 months of restarting anti-TB treatment and ART in a severely immunocompromised patient with HIV infection forces us to consider the possibility of LRTI in a patient with disseminated tuberculosis.

Evolution
After establishment of systemic corticosteroid therapy and maintenance of antituberculosis therapy, the hemiparesis resolved within 72 hours, with mild residual gait instability. Brain biopsy specimens showed fibronecrotic tissue with presence of inflammatory infiltrate and acid-fast bacilli (AFB), specifically 1-10 AFB per field, and polymerase chain reaction for M. tuberculosis was positive, although mycobacterial culture was negative. One month later, a follow-up abdominal CT scan was performed and the prostatic abscesses had disappeared, although there was still a minimal LVEF. The urinary catheter could be removed without recurrence of the symptoms. Corticosteroid treatment was maintained for 4 weeks and he completed one year of treatment for tuberculosis, with complete recovery.

Final diagnosis
Disseminated Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection (pulmonary, cerebral, genitourinary and colonic, with formation of enterovesical fistula). Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome.

