MEDICAL HISTORY-PERSONAL HISTORY
A 65-year-old woman, with no toxic habits or known drug allergies, consulted for fever, dyspnoea and haemoptysis 48 hours after discharge from hospital. Her medical history included arterial hypertension controlled by diet and a normofunctioning multinodular goitre with endocervical extension, diagnosed two years earlier, for which total thyroidectomy had been indicated. She came to the Emergency Department (ED) with fever, dyspnoea and haemoptysis of 24 hours' duration, 2 days after being discharged from our centre following the scheduled total thyroidectomy. During hospital admission, she presented superficial phlebitis on the left forearm, related to a peripheral venous catheter, which was treated by application of Burow's water. As he did not present fever, the catheter tip was not cultured.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
On arrival at the ED, the patient was hypotensive (BP 75/40 mmHg), HR 72 beats per minute, tachypnoeic (30 breaths per minute) and febrile (axillary temperature 38.3oC) with an oxygen saturation (FIO2 0.21) of 88%. Auscultation revealed the presence of bilateral rhonchi but no heart murmurs or signs of heart failure. There was cellulitis on the left forearm. The thyroidectomy incision looked good.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Chest X-ray: pulmonary infiltrates in the right lower lobe and left upper lobe. Blood tests: haemoglobin 10.7 g/dl, 15,280 leukocytes/mm3 (68% segmented, 24% banded and 5% lymphocytes), prothrombin time 60%, D-dimer 5,837 ng/ml, urea 70 mg/dl, creatinine 2.3 mg/dl, GOT 155 IU/l, calcium 8.8 mg/dl. Arterial blood gas analysis was not performed. Blood cultures were performed.

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS IN THE ED
The ED physicians considered it to be nosocomial pneumonia and decided to initiate antibiotic coverage with levofloxacin 500 mg EV and ceftriaxone 1g EV, 3 hours after arrival at the ED. Neither the cellulitis nor the history of phlebitis led to the addition of an antibiotic with activity against S. aureus.

EVOLUTION
3.5 hours after arrival, the patient's respiratory work-up worsened and she was intubated orotracheally and mechanically ventilated. As our centre did not have an Intensive Care Unit (ICU), the patient was transferred to another centre where the study was completed with the following complementary examinations: Chest CT scan: cavitated condensation in the left upper lobe and bibasal condensation with bronchogram and some cavitation. Fibrobronchoscopy: traces of blood in the trachea and in declivities of the right bronchial tree. Erythematous mucosa of the left bronchial tree. Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed. Transthoracic echocardiogram: absence of valvular vegetations. Doppler ultrasound of the left upper extremity: thrombosis of the superficial basilic and cephalic veins. After 3 days, both blood cultures and bronchoalveolar lavage culture showed the presence of methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) and sensitivity to the other antibiotics tested (erythromycin, clindamycin, gentamicin, ciprofloxacin, rifampicin and cotrimoxazole), a pattern compatible with community-acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA). The strain had an MIC to vancomycin of 1.5 μg/ml (E test). After learning the results, it was decided to replace the combination of levofloxacin and imipenem, which had been started in the ICU, with linezolid, which he received for 15 days. During her stay in the ICU, the hand abscess was debrided, where MRSA was also isolated, in this case resistant to quinolones, with ligation of the cephalic and basilic veins due to thrombosis. After 13 days the patient was extubated and transferred to the conventional hospital ward. During her stay on the ward she presented episodes of haemoptysis and a bronchial arteriography was performed which showed a pseudoaneurysm in a branch of the inferior lobar artery which was embolised. The MRSA strain isolated from the blood culture was sent to the National Microbiology Centre (Majadahonda) for typing. The strain was reported to belong to phage group III (phage type 84) and to possess the Panton-Valentine leukocidin (LPV) gene. By pulsed field electrophoresis it had a community profile. We screened for MRSA among the healthcare staff of our centre who had cared for the patient without detecting in any case the presence of S. aureus with an antibiogram pattern similar to that of the causal MRSA strain.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
Septic thrombophlebitis due to CA-MRSA with septic pulmonary embolisms.
