We present the case of a 77-year-old man who consulted the emergency department for pain and an abscessed lesion in the left pretibial region of two months' duration with no response to antibiotic treatment. The patient was of Spanish origin, an ex-drinker and ex-smoker, with no drug use and multiple comorbidities: hypertension, dyslipidaemia, insulin type 2 diabetes mellitus with acceptable metabolic control, revascularised chronic ischaemic heart disease, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation anticoagulated with acenocoumarol, and right carotid endarterectomy following an episode of transient ischaemic attack. The patient lived in an urban area and had not travelled recently, nor had he been in regular contact with animals. He had worked as a truck driver, now retired. Four months prior to the current episode, he had been admitted to hospital for accidental left costal trauma with recurrent haemothorax, without lower limb involvement.

The pain in the leg, initially diffuse, had focused on the anterior aspect of the tibia in the last weeks before consultation, where an area of swelling and redness had appeared. It was not accompanied by fever or other symptoms, nor did she report previous trauma or bites in the area. During this period he had undergone several courses of antibiotic treatment prescribed by his primary care physician without improvement. On examination, the patient was haemodynamically stable and afebrile. Cardiorespiratory auscultation showed left basal hypoventilation, with rhythmic heart tones and no murmurs. The abdomen was unremarkable. There was no evidence of neurological focality. Fluctuating swelling was observed in the middle third of the left tibia, with erythema and increased local temperature. There was no evidence of skin or joint lesions at other levels. In the complementary tests, the haemogram showed no alterations in any of the series, renal function and ions were normal. C-reactive protein was 19 mg/L. An anteroposterior (AP) and lateral plain radiograph of the left lower limb showed an osteolytic image with well-defined borders in the tibial diaphysis. The chest X-ray showed an increased cardiac silhouette with left costophrenic sinus impingement in relation to previous residual haemothorax, with no other alterations. At this point the following differential diagnosis was suggested:

Differential diagnosis
The appearance of inflammatory symptoms, pain and abscessed lesion together with an osteolytic radiological image suggests the presence of osteomyelitis, i.e. infection of the bone by different microorganisms, as the first diagnostic suspicion. However, the differential diagnosis of osteolytic lesions in long bones should include: Firstly, tumour pathology1 , both primary bone and metastatic, should be ruled out. Within primary tumour pathology, osteosarcoma is the most frequent. This type of lesion is located in long bones, but unlike in our case, radiographically the borders are not well defined and there is an accompanying periosteal reaction. Neither is the so-called Codman's triangle (triangular area of periosteal calcification found at the boundary between tumour and healthy bone) present, nor are there irregular calcifications of the soft tissues that usually appear in tumour pictures. These tumours have a bimodal distribution, being more frequent between the ages of 15-19 years and in elderly patients. In elderly patients they are often secondary to other conditions such as Paget's disease or previous radiotherapy. Among metastatic tumours, osteolytic metastases of carcinoma predominate, which are usually multiple and without marginal sclerosis; however, we are dealing with a single lesion and there is no clinical evidence to suggest the presence of a primary carcinoma.

The differential diagnosis should also be considered with plasmacytoma, a solitary osteolytic lesion without clinical, histological or radiological evidence of multiple myeloma, formed by a localised proliferation of neoplastic plasma cells. The average age of onset is 55 years and the most frequent location is the axial skeleton, with distal involvement being exceptional, as in the patient presented here. Secondly, a differential diagnosis should be made with Brodie's abscess2 , which is a subacute or chronic form of haematogenous osteomyelitis, and which represents between 2.5% and 42% of primary bone infections. Patients are usually under 25 years of age and usually present with joint pain and local swelling. It is usually haematogenous in origin, but can also occur contiguously in the context of trauma or osteosynthesis material. The infectious focus consists of an abscess confined within a sclerotic bone rim. In general, there are no signs of systemic disease. An intramedullary area of central radiolucency with sclerotic margins is characteristic on plain radiography. Finally, other less common entities with which the differential diagnosis should be made are eosinophilic granuloma, sarcoidosis and fibrous histocytoma. Eosinophilic granuloma is the most common and benign form of Langerhans cell histiocytosis. It is the abnormal proliferation of dendritic cells in various tissues, including bone, especially in the skull, femur, mandible, pelvis and spine. In the appendicular skeleton the lesions are usually metaphyseal or diaphyseal, radiolucent, well-defined and often delimited by a sclerotic halo. They are typically central in the spinal canal and periosteal reaction is rare. Clinically they present with pain and local oedema. Sarcoidosis is a systemic disease characterised by the formation of non-caseating granulomas, most commonly affecting the lung and mediastinal lymph nodes, but can involve any organ, including bone, which is affected in 3-13% of cases. The patient had no suggestive systemic symptoms or compatible chest X-ray findings. Benign fibrous histocytoma of bone constitutes approximately 1% of all benign bone tumours and is located in the diaphysis and epiphyseal end of the long bones, pelvis and ribs. Although it can occur at any age, it occurs most commonly in young adults. It is usually asymptomatic, unlike the patient presented here. Plain radiograph shows a radiolucent, well-defined lesion with sclerotic borders and eccentric thinning of the cortex.


Evolution
As the patient was stable and afebrile, antibiotic treatment was postponed pending surgical drainage and sampling. The abscessed lesion was drained by means of an approach to the abscessed lesion, with abundant purulent material coming out at the opening. During the procedure, fistulisation from the bone was observed. A sarcophagus was made in the anterointernal region of the tibia, thereby achieving excision of the fistulous tract. Curettage of the endomedullary abscess was performed, obtaining a large amount of purulent material. The bone defect was subsequently filled with absorbable calcium sulphate beads with gentamicin and vancomycin. Intraoperative microbiological bone samples were taken and processed for routine bacterial culture and mycobacteria. After surgery, empirical antibiotherapy was started with cloxacillin 2 g every 4 hours and ceftriaxone 2 g every 24 hours intravenously. The patient evolved favourably during admission, with daily local dressings without incident. He remained afebrile. The acid-fast stain of the samples showed no bacilli, and the usual bacterial cultures were negative, the PCR for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was positive, and empirical antibiotherapy was withdrawn and tuberculostatic treatment was started with four drugs (Rimstar®: rifampicin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol and isoniazid 165/400/275/75 mg 4 tablets a day). Sputum and urine smears were negative. On discharge the patient continued with the oral treatment prescribed during admission, being reviewed in the Infectious Diseases Department, with good evolution and tolerance to treatment, without alteration of the liver profile.

Final diagnosis
Osteomyelitis of the left tibia due to Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
