Clinical case report: A 47-year-old man with no past history of interest, who came to the emergency department for symptoms, of about two weeks' evolution, of intense abdominal and lumbar pain accompanied by a feeling of dystrophy, nausea, vomiting and severe deterioration of the general state of health. He reported intramuscular administration of diclofenac and dexamethasone 10 days earlier. On examination, BP 80/50; Fc: 109 bpm; Ta: 37.5o. Poor general condition. Feeling of severe illness. Pallor of skin and mucous membranes. Poorly melting. Dyspnoeic. Neurological: no AR focality: MVC. AC: rhythmic tones without murmurs. Abdomen: not assessable due to the impossibility of performing the examination in the supine decubitus position due to the intense pain in the lumbar and gluteal region, although there are indurated areas with impastoed skin in both gluteal regions that are very painful on superficial palpation. Lower extremities: bilateral oedema, fovea +. Complementary examination: leukocytes 27,400/mm3 (neutrophils 22%), Hg 9.9 g/dl, normal coagulation, creatinine 0.80, LDH 313, procalcitonin 0.84, CRP 115. EKG: sinus tachycardia 109 bpm. Chest X-ray: no data of interest CT scan abdomen and pelvis c/c: discrete bilateral pleural effusion. Pelvic lymph node images up to 1 cm adjacent to right main iliac vessels and left external iliac vessels. Colic frame dilatation up to the rectum where high density content is observed. Minimal amount of free fluid in the pelvis. At the level of the left and right gluteus maximus muscle, there are significant collections with a more hypodense centre and discrete peripheral uptake extending to the presacral space. Small isolated air bubbles, adjacent to the right fascia lata to the right iliac pala and in the right gluteal intermuscular fasciae. Soft tissue enlargement at the presacral level, extending to the L5-S1 disc level with irregularity and erosion of these vertebral plates and areas of sclerosis in S1 suggestive of L5-S1 spondylodiscitis. The patient required the administration of vasoactive drugs to maintain haemodynamic stability. He had a good course with empirical antibiotherapy with ceftriaxone and cloxacycline iv. After being assessed by general surgery, surgery was performed to drain the abscesses, and he was subsequently admitted to the internal medicine infectious diseases unit, where E. coli was isolated in blood cultures and in samples of the gluteal abscesses.
 Diagnosis: Septic shock secondary to spondylodiscitis of L5-S1 and gluteal abscesses due to E. coli infection. 
