A 25-year-old male patient from Ghana. He came to the emergency department for abdominal pain of months of evolution together with pruritic skin rash and occasional diarrhoeal stools with perianal pruritus, without pathological products. Physical examination was unremarkable. A stool culture was requested, which showed adult forms of Strongyloides stercolaris. In view of these findings, a further serology study was performed: HCV and HIV negative, HBV: anti-Hbs negative, HBsAg positive, anti-HBsAg positive. HBsAg positive. Total anti-HBc positive (IgM anti-HB core negative). No alteration in the proteinogram. Positive serology for HTLV type 1. Abdominal ultrasound was performed with the finding of retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy-ganglia of approximately 1 cm. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy with no pathological findings and sampling of the 2nd duodenal portion and stomach showed: gastritis and acute duodenitis secondary to the presence of intestinal parasites morphologically compatible with strongyloides. Treatment was started with albendazole 400 mg/12h for 7 days with resolution of the symptoms.
Loss of follow-up until 2 years later, readmission for abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, initially diagnosed as acute pancreatitis. CT scan showed marked distension of the duodenum and jejunum suggesting slowed intestinal transit. EDA with non-specific gastric and duodenal erythema and incompetent cardia and persistent intraluminal parasites in the PA morphologically compatible with strongyloides. Treatment was started with Ivermectin 3mg 2 tablets per day for 2 days every 6 weeks.
Subsequent follow-up in consultations, irregular, EDA in 2016 where intraluminal parasites persisted.
In December 2016, she was readmitted for respiratory symptoms with bilateral interstitial infiltrate requiring admission to the ICU, with CT scan and subsequent bronchoscopy showing alveolar haemorrhage with bronchoalveolar lavage and the presence of strongiloides stercolaris. Treatment with Ivermectin and albendazole was started, with a torpid evolution towards improvement. In addition, he presented a picture compatible with lymphocytic meningoencephalitis with the presence of HTLV in CSF. The patient had stopped ivermectin treatment approximately 3 months earlier due to drug supply problems.
