We present the case of a 72-year-old woman with a documented allergy to beta-lactams. Her personal history includes arterial hypertension, dyslipidaemia, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis treated with steroids for a year, deep vein thrombosis, hypothyroidism, atrial fibrillation. Home treatment with levothyroxine 50 mcg, warfarin 4 mg, furosemide 40 mg, bisoprolol 2.5 mg, lactulose, losartan 25 mg, ferrous sulphate and omeprazole 20 mg. She underwent cholecystectomy, hysterectomy and bilateral knee replacement due to osteoarthritis. She underwent surgery for severe symptomatic degenerative aortic stenosis, a biological aortic prosthesis was fitted and the postoperative period was complicated by ischaemic stroke with mild residual haemiparesis, acute renal failure and acute respiratory failure, requiring admission to the intensive care unit. After a month of hospitalisation, ten days after discharge he was admitted again to the Internal Medicine Department for heart failure with dyspnoea and decreased diuresis. On admission, treatment was adjusted, bladder catheterisation was performed and an echocardiogram was performed, which confirmed the normal functioning of the bioprosthesis and found no findings of interest. She was discharged, and the following day she came to the emergency department for a fever peak of 40oC with shivering and intense chills. She underwent a urinalysis which showed more than 500 leucocytes per field, positive nitrites and more than 500 red blood cells per field. Diagnosed with urinary tract infection, she was started on cotrimoxazole 160/800 mg every 12 hours for 7 days. During the following two months, the patient reported intermittent febrile fever and chills, predominantly in the evening, and went to her primary care physician, who prescribed amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875/125 mg every 8 hours for 10 days. Three months after surgery, he returned to the emergency department with symptoms of dyspnoea, oedema in the lower limbs with transudate and decreased diuresis for a week.

Physical examination revealed blood pressure of 130/80 mmHg, heart rate of 90 bpm, dyspnoea at rest with baseline oxygen saturation of 90%. There was jugular ingurgitation without hepatojugular reflux. Acceptable general condition, conscious, oriented, cooperative, slight mucocutaneous pallor, arrhythmic cardiac auscultation without audible murmurs, pulmonary auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur, oedema with fovea up to the root of the lower limbs, slight ascites.

Blood tests showed normochromic normocytic anaemia (10g/dl haemoglobin) with normal white series, normal coagulation and biochemistry with CRP 51.60 mg/L, ultrasensitive troponin of 0.031 ng/ml and NT-proBNP of 3548 pg/ml, as notable findings. A chest X-ray was requested, showing cardiomegaly and a pattern of vascular redistribution. The electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation at 75 beats per minute, normal axis and incomplete right bundle branch block. With these findings, she was admitted to the cardiology department for heart failure in a patient who had recently undergone valve replacement, and depletive treatment was started. Once on the ward, a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed showing a preserved ejection fraction, severe tricuspid insufficiency and mild mitral insufficiency and a maximum prosthetic gradient of 89/56 mmHg. Given the finding of high gradients in the prosthetic valve, a transesophageal echocardiogram was proposed, which the patient refused. After 7 days the patient developed a fever of 39oC with chills and shivering, blood and urine cultures were taken.

Differential diagnosis
The patient has a very recent history of valve replacement surgery that cannot be ignored. Within the differential diagnosis of heart failure in patients with prosthetic valves, we would have to evaluate possible valve thrombosis, prosthesis mismatch1 (prosthetic valve orifice inadequate for the patient's body surface), endocarditis and valve pannus (inflammatory reaction to a foreign body that reduces the valve outlet orifice).
Valve thrombosis could be ruled out because it usually causes acute pulmonary oedema and the patient presented with very subacute symptoms, in addition to being anticoagulated with warfarin at all times.
In the case of prosthetic mismatch, clinical manifestations are typical immediately after late surgery, years after prosthesis implantation. Given the appearance of fever accompanied by heart failure and awaiting blood cultures, the possibility of infection of the bioprosthesis should be suspected, which would be defined as early (less than a year after the operation) and of probable nosocomial origin due to recent hospitalisations. In addition, she has received steroid treatment for a year, so we can consider her to be an immunosuppressed patient, an added risk factor for the acquisition of infection. As an entry point, if the contamination occurred during surgery, we would have to consider microorganisms from the flora of the patient's skin, healthcare personnel or the extracorporeal circulation system (Staphylococcus epidermidis, Corinebacterium spp or diphtheromorphs) and from the ambient air (Aspergillus spp.). In this case it seems unlikely as the course of the infection has been subacute and in these cases usually debut with more aggressive symptoms. If we consider that the contamination occurred in the postoperative period, microorganisms with haematogenous dissemination that have a vascular catheter, the surgical wound, the lung or the urinary tract as an entry point would come into play. As the most frequent micro-organisms, coagulase-negative staphylococci, Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus spp, viridans group streptococci, fungi and micro-organisms of the HACEK group should be ruled out in order of frequency.
Do not forget endocarditis with negative blood cultures in which we would need to request serology for Coxiella spp, Bartonella spp, Mycoplasma spp, Chlamydia spp and Brucella spp, although they are more typical in late infections (one year after the intervention).

Evolution
Enterococcus faecalis was isolated in blood cultures and the urine culture was contaminated. Since the patient was allergic to beta-lactams, intravenous antibiotic treatment was started with daptomycin 10 mg/kg per day and gentamicin 1mg/kg every 8 hours. A transesophageal echocardiogram was performed, which was diagnostic as an aortic periprosthetic abscess was visualised above the valvular plane with flow passage and vegetation of 15x6 mm in the aortic bioprosthesis.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: aortic periprosthetic abscess above the valvular plane.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: 15x6 mm vegetation on the aortic bioprosthesis.
Valve replacement surgery was proposed, which the patient refused, so a conservative approach was adopted, maintaining antibiotic treatment. The patient evolved favourably, the fever disappeared and the clinical signs of heart failure improved. A control transthoracic echocardiogram 15 days after treatment showed prosthetic gradients of 70 mmHg, mild mitral insufficiency and mild tricuspid insufficiency. She underwent antibiotic treatment with daptomycin for 8 weeks, with disappearance of the periprosthetic abscess and vegetation in the control transesophageal echocardiogram performed at the end of treatment. The patient remained stable, with no fever or signs of heart failure.

Clinical judgement
Early prosthetic infective endocarditis due to Enterococcus faecalis on aortic bioprosthesis of probable nosocomial urinary origin.
