Reason for consultation
Ulcerative wounds on the penis.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
Male, 21 years old.
He denies drug allergies.
No medical or surgical history. He does not require regular treatment.
Current illness: he presented with ulcerous lesions on the glans penis that were pruritic and painless, afebrile. He reports that 2 months ago he had sexual intercourse without a protective barrier.
The patient is in good general condition, conscious, oriented, cooperative, well hydrated and perfused, normal colour, eupneic at rest.
Genital examination: single lymphadenopathy of 1.5 cm in diameter in the right inguinal region.
Several millimetric lesions at the base of the glans penis, granulomatous type, ulcerated in the centre, 3-4 mm in diameter, not painful on manipulation.

Additional tests:
Laboratory tests: normality of the 3 cell lines and biochemistry including renal function and C-reactive protein.
Serology: positive for syphilis and gonorrhoea, and possible hepatitis B infection (positive antibodies, antigens pending), and first HIV serology negative (pending second serology), hepatitis C negative.

Family and community approach
Single male, homosexual, no stable sexual partner, university student.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Syphilis and gonorrhoea.
Possible hepatitis B (HBV Ac negative, awaiting HBV Ag results).
First serology for HIV infection negative, awaiting a second serology within 6 months to check whether or not seroconversion is present.

Differential diagnosis:
STDs: chancroid, granuloma inguinale, lymphogranuloma venereum, genital herpes, human papilloma, molluscum contagiosum.
Inflammatory lesions: Behcet's syndrome (BS), Reiter's syndrome (RS), psoriasis.
Neoplasms: erythroplasia of Queyrat, basothelioma, squamous cell carcinoma, malignant melanoma.

Action plan and evolution
2.4 million IU single intramuscular dose is administered.
Referral to the Internal Medicine Outpatient Department for further study and treatment if necessary.
The preventive unit is notified, given that this is a notifiable disease, for the study and, if necessary, treatment of the patient's sexual partners.
