History, current disease and physical examination
A 40-year-old patient was referred to the adult congenital heart disease clinic at our hospital, which is a reference centre in our autonomous community. He had been under follow-up since the age of 21 by his cardiologist. Non-cardiological pathological history: hepatitis C, borderline mental retardation. Cardiological history: patient diagnosed at birth with Tetralogy of Fallot (pulmonary stenosis at valvular and subvalvular level, a ventricular septal defect (VSD) at subaortic level, aortic protrusion and right ventricular hypertrophy).

At 7 months of life, palliative surgical treatment was performed by means of a right Waterston fistula, which is a systemic-pulmonary fistula consisting of a latero-lateral anastomosis of the posterior wall of the ascending aorta with the right anterior pulmonary wall by means of a 4 mm Gore-Tex prosthesis. At 16 months of life he required a reoperation to enlarge the fistula. At 20 months it was decided to perform a complete surgical correction with closure of the Waterston fistula, infundibular resection, opening of the pulmonary ring and trunk with transannular patch implantation and closure of the ventricular septal defect with a pericardial patch.

At 7 years of age, he required a new reintervention with enlargement of both pulmonary branches with Dacron patch, closure of the ductus arteriosus which was found to be patent and closure of a residual shunt through the Waterston fistula. At 20 years of age he was re-intervened for residual VSD and severe left pulmonary branch stenosis (VSD closure with loose stitches and left pulmonary branch enlargement plasty). Since then, no follow-up in specific congenital heart disease consultation. Atrial flutter since 2006, anticoagulated with acenocoumarol (family refusal to attempt electrical cardioversion). Usual medication: acenocoumarol, bisoprolol 5 mg/24h, furosemide 40 mg/24h, digoxin 0.25 mg/24h. Current history: the patient was referred at 40 years of age for moderate exertional dyspnoea (NYHA functional class II) and cyanosis of several years of evolution. Sedentary lifestyle. Over the last few years, he reports that he has undergone repeated bleeding at his referral hospital. He reports frequent episodes of gingivorrhage and epistaxis and repeated respiratory infections. She is not usually vaccinated against influenza or pneumococcus.

Physical examination revealed: BP 110/60, basal O2 sat 87%. Labial cyanosis and acral cyanosis. AC: rhythmic heart tones, systolic murmur grade II-III/VI in pulmonary focus and left sternal border, diastolic murmur II/VI in pulmonary focus. AP: left basal hypoventilation. Abomen: hepatomegaly of 1-2 finger widths, painful. Hepatojugular reflux ++. Lower extremities: cutaneous trophic disorders, without oedema.

Complementary tests
Electrocardiogram: atrial flutter with mean ventricular response at 70 bpm. BRDHH. QRS 200 msec. Signs of right volume overload.
Chest X-ray: cardiomegaly. Elevation of the left hemidiaphragm. No pleuroparenchymal findings of acute evolution. Symmetrical pulmonary vascularisation.
Blood tests: biochemistry: urea 40, Cr 0.89, ions normal. Uric acid 7.8 mg/dl. Bilirubin 1.7 mg/dl. Liver enzymes normal. Iron metabolism: serum ferritin 35 μg/l, transferrin saturation index 25%. Haemoglobin 15.5 g/dl, haematocrit 47.5%. Platelets 153,000. Leukocytes 8,800 with 60% neutrophils.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: normal left ventricle (LVEF 57%). Flattened interventricular septal motion. Dilated right ventricle (proximal RV outflow tract 43 mm, distal RV outflow tract 41 mm, RV inflow tract 52 mm), moderately hypocontractile (TAPSE 14 mm, S wave ́ of lateral tricuspid annulus TDI 7.2 cm/s). Dilated right atrium (area 45 cm2). Mitral and aortic valves without structural or functional alterations. Residual leak in VSD closure patch of 4.5 mm with exclusive left-right shunt and LV-DV gradient of 75 mmHg. Significant pulmonary insufficiency (regurgitation index 0.62, THP <100 msec, protodiastolic gradient of 14 mmHg). RVOT systolic gradient 23 mmHg. Dilated pulmonary trunk (34 mm), right pulmonary branch 21 mm, no visualisation of left pulmonary branch. TR grade II, RV-AD gradient 33 mmHg. IVC 15 mm with correct inspiratory collapse. Estimated PAPs 40 mmHg. Thin interatrial septum, hypermobile towards right and left atrium, which does not appear to be perforated by this access route. No pericardial effusion. Normal aortic arch.


Clinical course
We found a patient with a chronic hypoxaemia syndrome, as he presented with cyanosis of the labia and acra, increased haemoglobin concentration and haematocrit, epistaxis, gingivorrhage and repeated respiratory infections, hyperuricaemia and hyperbilirubinaemia, all associated with significant exertional dyspnoea of long evolution. Hypoxaemia may be due to environmental causes (high altitude), alveolar hypoventilation, altered alveolocapillary diffusion, ventilation/perfusion mismatch or the presence of an anatomical right-left short-circuit. In our case, the a priori mechanisms that hypothetically best fit the origin of this hypoxaemia would be due to ventilation/perfusion imbalance or a right-left anatomical short-circuit that has not been well evaluated so far. Cyanotic congenital heart disease (CCHD) comprises a heterogeneous group of lesions with different anatomy and pathophysiology.

Diagnosis
Tetralogy of Fallot with Waterston's fistula at 7 months and complete correction at 20 months.
Extension of pulmonary branches at 7 years.
Closure of residual ventricular septal defect and enlargement of left pulmonary branch at 20 years.
Chronic hypoxaemia syndrome secondary to multiperforated interatrial septum with bidirectional shunt.
Severe pulmonary insufficiency with dilated and hypocontractile RV.
