This is a 45 year old woman with social problems, indigent. No known drug allergies. Heavy smoker (accumulated smoking 40 packs/year), with a considerable alcohol habit and ex-addicted to inhalation drugs. Personal history: human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection diagnosed in 1981 at the age of 18, chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) liver disease, past hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, severe bronchial asthma, cholelithiasis and choledocholithiasis with secondary pancreatitis, pulmonary tuberculosis in childhood, and surgery for a uterine fibroid.

Previous history
From the time of diagnosis of HIV infection until 2005, the patient did not receive regular follow-up care at the clinic and was not receiving antiretroviral treatment (HAART). In 2005 (three years before the referred episode) she was in stage B3 with AIDS-defining criteria (herpes zoster, oropharyngeal candidiasis) and CD4 count of 79 cells/μl with HIV viral load 77,448 copies/ml, and it was decided to start HAART with Emtricitabine (FTC) + Tenofovir (TDF) + Lopinavir/Ritonavir (LPV/r). After six months it was changed to FTC + TDF + Saquinavir/Ritonavir (SQV/r) due to treatment failure secondary to poor adherence and discontinuation of follow-up. Only once between 2005 and 2008 did she have a viral load below 50 copies/ml, with CD4 count always below 200 cells/mm3. During this interval, the patient required multiple hospital admissions to the Infectious Diseases Department for asthmatic exacerbation with bronchial hyperresponsiveness in the context of non-condensing respiratory infection, receiving treatment with antibiotherapy, intravenous corticotherapy and later oral corticotherapy in a permanent descending regimen. Despite this, the patient continued to smoke actively and persisted in the consumption of alcohol and occasionally other toxic substances via inhalation. At the time of the current episode the patient's usual medication included TDF + FTC + SQV/r, budesonide + formoterol and salbutamol inhalers, prednisone, methadone, and cotrimoxazole as prophylaxis every other day.

Present illness
The patient came to the emergency department in May 2008 with behavioural and language disorders associated with loss of strength in the right side of the body since the previous day. She reported a non-thermometric dysthermic sensation in the last few days. She denied headache, nausea or vomiting, and did not present any other associated symptoms in the anamnesis by organs and apparatus. Physical examination revealed a tendency to hypertension (155/88 mmHg), tachycardic at 123 beats per minute, febrile at 37.8oC, and eupneic with an arterial oxygen saturation of 96% with nasal goggles at 2 litres per minute. She is conscious, disoriented in time, space and person, hardly cooperative. General condition is fair. Well hydrated and perfused, normal colour. Cushingoid habitus. No alterations in the head and neck. Cardiac tones are rhythmic and regular without murmurs, presenting generalised hypoventilation and scattered bilateral expiratory wheezing on pulmonary auscultation. The abdomen is soft and depressible, without pain on palpation, masses or organomegaly. Pedial pulses are present in the lower extremities and there is no oedema. Neurological examination revealed disorientation in all three spheres, with bilateral mydriatic pupils reactive to light, motor aphasia, preserved external eye movements, central right facial paralysis with no other cranial nerve focality, right hemiparesis 4/5, non-cooperation in the finger-nose test, non-exalted osteotendinous reflexes, bilateral flexor plantar skin reflex, negative Romberg and unexplored gait.

Complementary tests
The blood tests taken in the emergency department showed no significant alterations in the haemogram or biochemistry, except for mild hyponatraemia (sodium 131 mmol/l) and ethanol levels of 10 mg/dl. Venous blood gases and coagulation are normal. Rapid urine analysis was positive for cocaine and opiates, with positive visual strip tests for haemoglobin (5+), urobilinogen (3+) and leucocytes (2+). Blood cultures were taken and were negative. The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with axis at 100o without block or repolarisation alterations. Chest X-ray showed only a small residual infiltrate in the left upper lobe. A computerised tomography (CT) scan of the skull was requested, which showed "a left frontal lesion of nodular morphology, poorly defined, about 2.5 cm in diameter and 4 cm in the following section, without being able to distinguish whether it was a single lesion or two adjacent ones, with a hyperdense peripheral and central area more hypodense, and causing a mass effect with displacement of the midline, as well as perilesional oedema that produced effacement of homolateral sulci".

With the data obtained from the examination and the complementary tests, the patient was admitted to the Infectious Diseases hospital ward with the syndromic diagnosis of "Multiple space-occupying lesion (LOE) with mass effect in a severely immunosuppressed HIV patient", and empirical treatment was started.

Differential diagnosis
In our case we were dealing with a patient with several cerebral LOEs, in a state of severe immunosuppression due to stage B3 HIV infection with virological failure, together with prolonged corticoid therapy and drug abuse. After imaging tests that show lesions that produce a mass effect, diffuse central nervous system (CNS) disorders such as HIV encephalopathy (dementia-AIDS complex, CDS) or progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) are relegated to second place, and we must first think of toxoplasmosis or primary CNS lymphoma in its focal presentation, also considering the possibility of tuberculoma or other infectious brain abscesses.

In an immunosuppressed HIV patient, the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis is difficult, as there is often no increase in immunoglobulin M (IgM) or large variations in immunoglobulin G (IgG) titres, so it is not useful for diagnosis, so it is more of a suspicion than a diagnosis of certainty. On the other hand, the imaging features are an excellent tool to guide the diagnosis. Toxoplasmosis on CT usually manifests as multiple, hypodense lesions located in the basal ganglia, thalamus and corticosubcortical region, with the typical ring-shaped enhancement after intravenous contrast administration, with the presence of eccentric nodular enhancement in the enhancing wall being very specific (but not very sensitive). In MRI, T2 and FLAIR sequences show the target sign in the lesions, with a hyperintense centre correlating with necrosis, a hypointense ring correlating with the inflammatory zone, and a hyperintense periphery in relation to surrounding oedema. Gadolinium T1-weighted sequences show an enhancing ring of the inflammatory zone. The lesions usually show increased diffusion on diffusion sequences, on spectroscopy there is usually an elevated lipid and lactate peak. Blood volume relative to the lesion is decreased. Oedema and haemorrhage are commonly associated with these lesions. The main differential diagnosis with multiple lesions with ring enhancement is with primary CNS lymphoma. In favour of lymphoma are subependymal extension, diffusion restriction (hypercellularity), involvement of the corpus callosum and marked choline spike. The relative blood volume in the lymphomatous lesion is increased.

In addition to these more frequent entities, in the HIV patient, the possibility that lesions with enhancement may correspond to brain abscesses of bacterial aetiology cannot be left out of the differential diagnosis.

Evolution
After admission to the ward, and given the characteristics of the lesions, empirical treatment for cerebral toxoplasmosis was started with pyrimethamine + sulfadiazine (later the serology for toxoplasmosis was negative for IgM and positive for IgG), in addition to empirical coverage with broad-spectrum antibiotherapy with meropenem + metronidazole. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain with contrast was requested. According to the radiology report, "several polylobulated space-occupying lesions with a cystic component in the left frontal lobe with significant mass effect and perilesional oedema, causing discrete falciform herniation in the anterior half of the cerebral sickle with displacement of the left anterior cerebral artery and ventricular deformation with obliteration of the frontal horn of the left ventricle. The lesions are low signal on T1 and FLAIR sequence and high on T2, with diffusion restriction and marked contrast uptake of annular morphology. The larger ones measure 3 and 1.8 cm respectively and there are other smaller ones of similar nature in contact with the lateral and posterior aspect. The rest of the parenchyma has a normal signal. The lesions described suggest a possible diagnosis of abscesses (tuberculous?) and less probably, due to the characteristics of the signal and the location, lymphoma or toxoplasma. After two weeks of treatment, there was no clinical or radiological response, the patient remained febrile with headache, aphasia and hemiparesis, as well as suffering a comical episode, so it was decided to perform surgery. A left frontal craniotomy was performed, finding a tension dura mater. The abscess capsule was removed, which reached the ventricle but was not open to it. Puncture and evacuation of the pus (30 ml) was performed, and excision of a laminar fragment measuring 30x30x2 mm together with an irregular surface fragment of cerebroid appearance measuring 35x20x15 mm, with a cystic appearance and purulent content. Samples were sent for microbiological and histopathological analysis. Gram staining of the microbiological sample showed gram-positive branched filamentous bacilli compatible with Nocardia, growing two weeks later in standard culture colonies of aerobic actinomycete (the strain was sent to the Bacteriology Service of the National Microbiology Centre with a result of Nocardia farcinica). The fungal culture and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome were negative. The pathology report describes a brain abscess with peripheral fibrovascular proliferation. Despite the addition of appropriate specific antibiotic treatment (amikacin 500 mg every 12 hours for synergism with carbapenem already prescribed), the patient had a torpid evolution, developing post-surgical hydrocephalus, multifactorial jaundice and global respiratory failure, as well as important motor sequelae, evolving to multi-organ failure and dying one month after the operation.

Final diagnosis
Brain abscess due to Nocardia farcinica in a severely immunocompromised patient with HIV infection, prolonged corticosteroid treatment and drug abuse.
