A 47-year-old male patient, ex-smoker and ex-consumer of inhaled toxic substances, who had been diagnosed with acute HIV infection in 2015 after unsafe sexual intercourse, with a viral load of 450,654 copies/ml and 566 CD4/μl at diagnosis. He was started on antiretroviral treatment and follow-up, abandoning both on his own initiative.
He consulted the emergency department for several weeks of frontal headache, difficulty in articulating language and gait instability. The relatives also commented that he was bradypsychic, with generalised slowness, frequent memory lapses, difficulty in relating to others and behavioural alterations. He had not presented thermometric fever at home and had no clear constitutional symptoms.

On examination the patient was conscious, disoriented in time and space and bradypsychic; well hydrated and perfused, and eupneic at rest. Vital signs were: BP: 100/80 mmHg, 90 bpm, 18 rpm, SatO2 96% and axillary temperature 38.5 oC. On inspection he had lesions on the right lateral edge of the tongue suggestive of oral hairy leukoplakia. Cardiorespiratory auscultation showed rhythmic cardiac tones without audible murmurs or friction rubs, with good bilateral vesicular murmur and no pathological noises. The abdomen was soft, depressible, non-painful, with no visceromegaly. There was nothing remarkable in the lower extremities. The neurological examination showed dysarthria, inattention, and slight lateralisation of the gait to the left with negative Romberg. The cranial nerves showed no alterations and strength and sensitivity were preserved. Osteotendinous reflexes were present and symmetrical and the plantar cutaneous reflex was bilateral flexor. There was no dysmetria and no meningeal signs.

Laboratory tests performed in the emergency department showed renal function and ions within normal limits and mild anaemia with a normocytic normochromic profile with haemoglobin of 11.8 g/dl, no lymphopenia and normal platelets. The coagulation study was normal. Chest X-ray and electrocardiogram showed no relevant alterations. The non-contrast CT scan of the skull performed in the emergency department showed multiple hypodense lesions in both frontal lobes, right parietal, right temporal, left fronto-parietal region and left basal ganglia, which caused a mass effect with a 6 mm midline shift.
Once on the ward, basic biochemistry and liver tests were requested and showed no alterations. Acute phase reactants were elevated with ESR of 60 mm/h and CRP of 40 mg/dl. Microbiological studies were requested and confirmed the known HIV infection with a viral load of 719,341 copies/ml and a very low CD4 count (1 cell/μl).

Differential diagnosis
In the evaluation of brain lesions in the HIV-infected patient, it is essential to know the degree of immunosuppression of the patient. These lesions are more frequent in severely immunosuppressed patients, with CD4 counts below 200 cells/μl. In our case, being a patient with HIV infection with very severe immunosuppression, the main entities to consider in the differential diagnosis were: Toxoplasma encephalitis, primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), HIV encephalopathy and cytomegalovirus encephalitis.
We must fundamentally differentiate between two types of lesions: lesions that do not enhance after contrast administration and those that enhance in a ring after contrast administration.
Diffuse CNS lesions or lesions that do not enhance after contrast administration include PML and HIV-associated encephalopathy. These two entities have well-characterised and well-defined imaging patterns, but in early stages, it is difficult to differentiate between them and they can sometimes coexist in the same patient with severe immunosuppression. These lesions usually do not present oedema or mass effect.  PML is a demyelinating disease of the CNS, with a progressive course, caused by reactivation of the JC virus in situations of severe immunosuppression (CD4 below 150 cells/μl). Patients characteristically present with rapidly progressive focal neurological deficits including hemiparesis, ataxia, aphasia and cognitive impairment. CSF examination is normal or nonspecifically altered, and the diagnosis is confirmed by polymerase chain reaction. It is characterised by bilateral, asymmetric, multifocal areas of demyelination, preferentially located in periventricular areas and subcortical white matter. HIV encephalopathy is a diagnosis of exclusion. It typically presents with the classic triad of subacute dementia, depressive symptoms and gait disturbance. On neuroimaging, lesions are usually bilateral and mainly involve the deep and subcortical white matter and may also involve the basal ganglia. CNS cytomegalovirus infection may present as a progressive encephalopathy or, more commonly, as meningoencephalitis, and usually occurs in very severe immunosuppression (CD4 less than 50 cells/μl). It may present with delirium, confusion and neurological focality. Radiologically, it is similar to HIV encephalopathy, with patchy white matter involvement. A very characteristic subependymal enhancement may occur, although this is rare. In our case, the bilateral distribution of the lesions is in favour of one of these entities, but the location of the lesions, the radiological pattern and the clinical presentation are against. Focal brain lesions that enhance into a ring after contrast administration include CNS lymphoma and Toxoplasma encephalitis, and the possibility of tuberculomas or other aetiologies of brain abscesses should also be considered. These lesions are characterised by mass effect and associated oedema. CNS lymphoma is the second most common cause of focal brain disease in HIV-infected patients. It may present as confusion, altered level of consciousness, cognitive impairment, motor focality, aphasia and/or seizures. In addition, it is frequently associated with general symptoms such as fever, sweating and weight loss, which occur in about 80% of patients. Lesions are larger, deep, typically periventricular and usually single. They may be necrotic and haemorrhagic, with a thick, heterogeneous and irregular ring wall enhancement after contrast administration. Taking these characteristics into account, the clinical presentation of CNS lymphoma is in favour of the diagnosis, while the number of lesions, their location, their size, the radiological pattern and the absence of general symptoms, which make this diagnosis unlikely, are against it.
Another possibility to consider in the differential diagnosis is brain abscesses. Bacterial intracranial abscesses are rare in HIV-infected patients with severe immunosuppression. In patients with Listeria monocytogenes CNS infection, although meningitis is the most common form of presentation, brain abscesses with or without encephalitis or rhomboencephalitis have also been described. The immunosuppressed state and the number of lesions (it can present as multiple focal lesions) would favour the diagnosis, but the age (it usually appears in patients older than 60 years), the absence of fever, the location of the lesions (basal ganglia and brainstem involvement is common) are against it.
Nocardia is also prone to produce CNS infection in the form of abscesses, with the condition usually preceded by pulmonary infection. Abscesses may be loculated, single or multiple. Against this diagnosis would be the absence of fever and previous respiratory symptoms, as well as the radiological pattern of the lesions.
As for Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection of the CNS, the usual form of presentation is tuberculous meningitis, with tuberculomas and tuberculous abscesses being rare. Tuberculous abscesses may arise from parenchymal tuberculomas or by dissemination of mycobacteria from meningeal foci. They may be single or multiple. Tuberculomas usually present as granulomatous lesions, usually multiple, located at the junction of the white and grey matter. They may be accompanied by hyperenhancement in the meninges and enhancement of the lesions with radiological contrast. The pattern of enhancement is variable: nodular, ring-shaped or irregular. Diagnosis is based on CSF analysis and culture. In favour of this entity is the immunosuppressed state of our patient, and against, the clinical features (usually presenting with the typical clinical triad of fever, headache and altered level of consciousness), the number, distribution and radiological pattern of the lesions.
Aspergillus brain abscesses usually present with concurrent pulmonary involvement. Clinically, patients present with very low CD4 counts and develop altered level of consciousness with or without seizures. Lesions are usually multifocal, with a predilection for the junction between the white and grey matter. The radiological pattern of the lesions and the absence of neutropenia or previous corticosteroid treatment, co-factors normally necessary for their occurrence, militate against this diagnosis.
Cryptococcus is the most common cause of meningitis in HIV-infected patients. Patients may also develop cryptococcomas, in the form of cystic lesions in the basal nuclei. In our case, the location and radiological pattern of the lesions would argue against this diagnosis.
Cerebral toxoplasmosis is the most prevalent neurological disease in patients in advanced stages of HIV infection (CD4 less than 100 cells/μl). It usually presents with fever, headache, confusion, altered level of consciousness, focal neurological deficit or seizures. On neuroimaging tests, lesions are usually multiple, located in the parietal or frontal lobes, basal ganglia and at the cortico-subcortical or periventricular level; and they enhance in a ring after contrast administration. They usually present oedema and moderate mass effect. In our case, given the severe immunosuppression of our patient, the location and radiological pattern of the lesions would be the first diagnosis to be considered, so it would be necessary to check the ring enhancement of the lesions with a new imaging test and to verify the existence of positive serology for Toxoplasma.

Evolution
On the ward, given the radiological findings and the high suspicion of cerebral toxoplasmosis, empirical oral treatment was started with sulfadiazine (1.5 g every 6 hours) and pyrimethamine (100 mg on the first day, followed by 75 mg per day thereafter), in addition to folinic acid (10 mg per day) and dexamethasone (4 mg every 8 hours).
Among the microbiological studies requested, the presence of positive IgG for Toxoplasma stood out. Other studies performed were negative (serology for syphilis and cytomegalovirus, as well as determination of cryptococcal antigen in serum). Blood cultures taken in the emergency department were also negative.
Cranial MRI with contrast showed multiple lesions of different sizes, supratentorial in location, involving the basal ganglia and the cortico-subcortical junction, with low signal intensity in T2, peripheral oedema, restricted diffusion in the centre and ring-shaped uptake after administration of intravenous contrast, findings suggestive of cerebral toxoplasmosis as a first possibility. These lesions and the surrounding oedema caused a mass effect with a 5 mm midline shift. In view of these findings, treatment with sulphadiazine and pyrimethamine was maintained and the dose of dexamethasone was progressively reduced until it was discontinued. Prior to discharge, antiretroviral treatment was started with abacavir, lamivudine and dolutegravir. The patient was reviewed in the outpatient infectious diseases department two weeks after discharge, showing clinical improvement and tolerating the medication well.

Final diagnosis
Cerebral toxoplasmosis in a patient with advanced HIV infection.

