History, current disease and physical examination
A 25-year-old man attended a cardiology clinic after an episode of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response while exercising on the beach and was treated by pharmacological cardioversion with amiodarone in the emergency department. The patient had been experiencing episodes of palpitations related to intense exertion for a year. He had no functional class deterioration or other cardiovascular symptoms.

Personal history:
In preparation for competitive firefighter training.
Labelled episodes of anxiety with chest pain, sensation of dyspnoea and acute elevation of blood pressure.
No other cardiovascular risk factors or drug use.
Mallory Weiss syndrome. ʟʟ No regular medication.


Family history: one brother had died of transposition of great vessels and ventricular septal defect, another brother had died in utero due to interruption of the aortic arch and he had a cousin with pre-excitation syndrome.

Physical examination: conscious, oriented, normal colour, eupneic. Normal phenotype. Blood pressure 218/110 mmHg in right upper limb, 169/86 mmHg in left upper limb. Peripheral pulses present. Pulmonary auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur, cardiac auscultation: ejective proto-mesosystolic murmur in aortic focus and left parasternal border grade II over LV also audible in interscapular focus. Abdomen and lower limbs without findings.

Complementary tests
Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm with normal cardiac axis. Presence of incomplete right bundle branch block and signs suggestive of left ventricular hypertrophy.
Chest X-ray: no cardiomegaly, absence of pleural effusion or pulmonary infiltrates. Rib indentations are seen.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: mild septal hypertrophy, mild mitral anterolateral leaflet prolapse with trivial mitral insufficiency. In the suprasternal window, a flow acceleration and gradient of 86.6 mmHg in the descending thoracic aorta below the left subclavian outflow was noted. The rest of the study including left atrial dimensions and left ventricular diastolic function was normal.
Thoracic-abdominal CT angiography: presence of aortic coarctation distal to the ostium of the left subclavian artery with a reduction of the aortic lumen to 0.6 cm in diameter, with hypertrophy of the left intercostal arteries distal to the coarctation, the left subclavian artery and the left mammary artery.
Nuclear magnetic resonance angiography: saccular aneurysm adjacent to the bifurcation of the right middle cerebral artery.
Normal karyotype, absence of 22q11.2 selection.


Clinical course
Given the findings compatible with coarctation of the descending aorta and the diagnosis of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, the patient was admitted to the cardiology ward to complete the study and decide on the therapeutic approach. Thoracic-abdominal CT angiography was performed, which confirmed coarctation distal to the ostium of the left subclavian artery. Given the association of this aortic pathology with cerebrovascular malformations, it was decided to perform a cerebral magnetic resonance angiography, which revealed an aneurysm in the middle cerebral artery. In addition, given the family history, karyotyping was performed and a FISH hybridisation study of one of the deletions associated with this type of pathology was carried out, both tests being normal. With the diagnoses described, the case was presented at the clinical session, and the decision was made to first operate on the cerebral aneurysm and then to surgically correct the coarctation of the aorta. The patient underwent successful surgery and is currently asymptomatic.


Diagnosis

Main
Coarctation of aorta in descending thoracic AO
Intracranial aneurysm in middle cerebral artery 

Secondary
Paroxysmal AF, mild MI with MVP
Arterial hypertension in clinical context
