A 40-day-old male infant, who after receiving a bottle of formula milk, having been exclusively breastfed until then, presented with generalised urticaria.

History
Personal history:
complications. Apgar 9/10. Birth weight: 3790gr. Normal metabolic tests. Exclusive breastfeeding until 40 days of life. Habitual regurgitator, with normal stools and adequate weight gain.

Family: Mother with atopic dermatitis.

Physical examination: Good general condition BEG, good nutritional and hydration status. Small generalised wheals. Normal cardiac and pulmonary auscultation. Abdomen soft and depressible, not painful, no masses or visceromegaly. Age-appropriate neurological status.

Differential diagnosis
a) Urticaria induced by infections
b) IgE-mediated cow's milk protein allergy
c) Insect sting urticaria

Although viral infections are the most frequent cause of acute urticaria in children, cutaneous manifestations are associated with other clinical symptoms. Viruses involved include Ebstein-Barr virus, enterovirus, adenovirus, parvovirus and others. Insect stings often give rise to IgE-mediated urticaria, but the antecedent is usually very definite. One of the manifestations of cow's milk protein allergy is urticaria, in IgE-mediated presentations.

EVOLUTION
An oral antihistamine and hydrolysed milk were prescribed due to the APLV symptoms.
The evolution was favourable, with good appetite and adequate weight gain. After drinking cow's milk formula at 8 months of age, he presented generalised urticarial rash with swelling of the lips and went to the emergency department. He eats calves without problems.
Complementary tests at one year: cow's milk specific IgE 33.1 kU/L (Class 4),
Alphalactoalbumin 17.8 kU/L Betalactoglobulin 12.5 kU/L, Casein 22 kU/L. It was decided to continue with a cow's milk protein-free diet.
At the last re-evaluation at 15 months, the skin tests were positive for milk, alpha-lactoalbumin, beta-lactoglobulin and casein, so it was decided to continue with the exempt diet and to delay the provocation due to the high probability that it would be positive.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
Allergy to cow's milk protein IgE-mediated cow's milk protein allergy
