A 5 year old patient attended the Primary Care Emergency Department (SUAP) accompanied by his parents and requesting treatment for his Atopic Dermatitis (AD), "because the child had had an outbreak for several days and could no longer cope with the itching". Among the antecedents, he had AD, treated with emollients and moisturisers, almost daily, and with pharmacological treatment with corticoids only in the outbreaks, so they assumed the situation to be normal in view of the known evolution of the process.

On examination, the patient presented numerous skin lesions, worsened by scratching, on the face, inguinal region, hands and feet, in the form of excoriations, eczema, papules and erosions. A personal and family history of atopy-related diseases and the presence of intense pruritus were noted in the consultation.

Both parents also reported the appearance of pruritus over a few days, which they attributed to having been in the countryside the previous weekend, where they saw many pine processionnaires. The mother also reported a history of allergy to grasses, olive trees and mites.

Given the manifestation of pruritus in all members of the family, it was decided to examine the parents, and a few excoriations with impetiginisation were observed, especially in the father, on the abdomen, waist, inguinal area, arms, wrists and interdigital folds.

Following suspicion of parasitosis and examination of some characteristic lesions that pointed to the diagnosis of scabies, treatment with topical permethrin 5% cream and oral antihistamines was recommended, and a check-up was requested to re-evaluate the process. The patients reported a clear and rapid improvement from the day the treatment was started.

Follow-up by the family doctor and paediatrician showed that the symptoms had disappeared and the lesions had improved. It was also recommended that close contacts be followed up in case they showed signs of infestation.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS

In this case, the presence of pruritic lesions in the whole family was sufficient to raise suspicion of more than AD in the child. Given the signs that pointed to the diagnosis and the lack of tests or techniques to confirm scabies in the ED, it was decided to start pharmacological treatment, after observing some lesions compatible with the diagnosis of scabies. The successful and rapid therapeutic response served as a good measure of confirmation of the disease.
