This is a 16-year-old adolescent from the urban area of the municipality of Útica (Cundinamarca), a high school student of mixed race, who consulted for a clinical picture of three days of evolution consisting of subjective fever associated with asthenia, adynamia, myalgia, odynophagia, dry cough and a feeling of faintness in the last two hours. A review of systems was negative. The patient was treated with acetaminophen and amoxicillin, without improvement. Clinical history was not relevant. The patient reported the presence of horses, cats and dogs in the paddock area located in the peridomicile. On admission to hospital, the patient was in acceptable general condition, hydrated, with a temperature of 37°C, moist congestive mucous membranes and a mobile neck with no lymphadenopathies. There was no evidence of skin rash or neurological deficit. The rest of the physical examination was normal. She was admitted for observation with a diagnosis of acute viral laryngitis and treatment was started with acetaminophen and intravenous fluids. Initial laboratory tests showed: 4.5 leukocytes per 109/L (neutrophils, 65.2 %; lymphocytes, 30.2 %); platelets, 173,000/mm3; haemoglobin, 16.8 g/dl, and haematocrit, 51.5 %. Twelve hours after admission, the blood count showed leukopenia (2.8 leukocytes per 109/L; neutrophils, 48.3 %; and lymphocytes, 44.3 %) and thrombocytopenia (platelets, 145,000/mm3). At this time, the patient was still in acceptable general condition with no changes in the physical examination, hydrated and afebrile. Due to the clinical picture on admission, the area of origin and the leukopenia associated with thrombocytopenia evidenced in the control blood count, a clinical suspicion of dengue was determined without warning signs. He was hospitalised and continued under the same management with intravenous fluids, antipyretics and blood tests every 12 hours, and rickettsial infection was considered among the differential diagnoses, given its role as a cause of acute febrile syndrome in the geographical area. On the fifth day of hospitalisation, a blood sample was taken with the patient's consent for serum separation and diagnostic analysis for dengue (capture IgM ELISA-Panbio Diagnostics®) and for rickettsial infection (indirect immunofluorescence for the identification of IgG antibodies against R. rickettsii, Taiaçu strain, R. felis and R. amblyommii, strains donated by Marcelo Labruna; R. akari, R. parkeri and R. typhi, strains donated by the University of Texas Medical Branch, with a dilution of 1:64 or higher considered positive). The patient remained hospitalised for six days until resolution of both leukopenia and thrombocytopenia was evident. During the same period, he remained in acceptable general condition except for the presence of nausea without vomiting on the last two days of hospitalisation for which he required metoclopramide. No new febrile peaks, changes in physical examination or haemorrhagic manifestations were documented. It was therefore decided to discharge the patient, with a follow-up outpatient appointment after 15 days. During the follow-up appointment (15 days after discharge) a new serum sample was taken for processing as a rickettsial convalescence phase. The following results were observed: negative IgM for dengue and significant elevation of titres against R. felis (difference of four or more titres between the acute and convalescent phase sample). The results suggested a diagnosis of flea-borne spotted fever.
