MCSS. Six-year-old female patient, originally from the state of San Luis Potosí, with residence in the Acantzen neighbourhood of the Tanchahuil locality in the municipality of San Antonio, in the same state. The patient was brought by her father to the health centre, where the medical staff requested a consultation to make the diagnosis. The interrogation was carried out directly and indirectly through an interview with the father. Her current illness began on 5 May 2007, after being bitten by the insect that transmitted the disease during the night; the following day she presented with an unquantified, constant fever that lasted one day, which subsided spontaneously, only to appear again six days later accompanied by left bipalpebral oedema, for which reason her parents went to the Tanchahuil health centre, where a blood sample was taken by digital puncture for a smear and thick blood drop; They were sent to the Laboratory of Health Jurisdiction 6, where Trypanosoma cruzi blood trypomastigotes were observed. The jurisdictional epidemiologist contacted the Parasite Biology Laboratory of the Faculty of Medicine of the UNAM on 15 May to request confirmation of the diagnosis and specific treatment. The following day, the patient was visited at home to carry out a clinical epidemiological study with a clinical history, evaluation of the home and taking samples for parasite and serological diagnosis. Personal non-pathological and pathological history, without relevance to the current condition. She has a history of epidemiological importance related to living with the transmitting insect in the home from birth, as well as the capture of a triatomine inside the home, which is corroborated by the identification of Triatoma dimidiata specimens by the patient and her father, who refers that in the region they are known as Jutzul, which in the Huasteca language means "the one that sucks blood". Another important antecedent is the characteristics of the house, which has construction materials considered risky for the presence of the transmitter (reed walls, earthen floor and palm roof), as well as poor sanitary and hygienic conditions, ventilation and lighting. The patient had a negative history of transfusions. On physical examination, the most relevant findings were the Romaña sign in the left eye, accompanied by erythema, pruritus and retroocular pain, and left preauricular and submaxillary adenomegaly. Cardiac sounds were unaltered, without hepatosplenomegaly; lower limbs without oedema. Parasitological diagnosis was confirmed by the Parasite Biology Laboratory, by observing the parasite in smears and its isolation in NNN and LIT culture medium. Blood biometry, blood chemistry, general urine examination and liver function tests were requested, which were normal, so treatment was started with benznidazole at a dose of 10 mg/kg body weight per day for 30 days, under the supervision of the epidemiologist of the health jurisdiction, with no adverse reactions. After treatment, she was monitored serologically with indirect ELISA and IFA every six months for a year and a half, whose titres were, respectively, 0.231 O.D. and 1:256 at six months, 0.049 O.D. and 1:128 at 12 months, and 0.021 O.D. and 1:64 at 18 months; an ECG was performed six months after treatment, which was interpreted as a normal tracing. The patient evolved asymptomatically and is currently in apparent good health.

