Reason for consultation
A 28 year old male presented with confusional disorder and behavioural disorder.

Personal history
No associated organic pathology, history of psychotic symptoms in 2003, following the ingestion of cannabis.

Family history
Healthy 68-year-old father. Mother aged 60 with diabetes. Cannabis and cocaine-using siblings currently abstinent. Lives with the family of origin.

Toxicological history
He started using cannabis at the age of 15-16 years on an ad hoc basis. After a year, his use increases during his stay in the USA. He relates it to stressful situations and problems in living together. He reports occasional contact with other drugs such as alcohol and ecstasy. She returned to Spain and after 6 months she requested psychiatric and psychological help, which she continues to receive to the present day. He reports a period of abstinence of up to 8 months, remaining asymptomatic. In recent years he has increased his consumption of hashish, reaching a consumption of 10 to 12 joints a day. Occasional use of cocaine and benzodiazepines. He reports using 0.5 grams of cocaine once or twice a day for three or four months, smoked, in association with alcohol consumption, 3 or 4 glasses of beer a day. She requested psychiatric help, stating that she "couldn't cope any more" and due to family pressure.

Description of the case.
He lives in an upper-middle class family. He works as a salesman in the family business. At the time of admission, he says he feels sad and can no longer cope. He has a history of behavioural disorder since adolescence and is diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, due to his impulsivity, aggressiveness and irritability and based on his frequent changes of school. Hospitalised in different psychiatric institutions for psychotic symptoms associated with cannabis use since 2003. He was prescribed treatment with neuroleptics and antidepressants together with psychological treatment, and subsequently remained asymptomatic. In May 2008, he was admitted for confusional symptoms and aggressive behaviour, attacking a policeman with a knife. On examination, he presented emotional incontinence, suspiciousness, defiant behaviour, delusional ideas and kinaesthetic hallucinations. Antipsychotic treatment with risperidone 6mg per day, oxcarbazepine 900mg per day and chloracepate dipotassium 45mg per day was indicated. He has absconded from the institution on several occasions despite being legally committed. He displays self-aggressive and heteroaggressive behaviour, constantly threatening staff and patients, transgressing limits, rules and guidelines of the institution. Medication was intensified with intramuscular zuclopenthixol for 3 consecutive days, improving his behaviour, and it was subsequently necessary to transfer him to another institution due to hospital security measures.

Psychopathological examination
At the time of admission, he was confused, refused to cooperate and his relatives reported that he was strange. He showed bizarre behaviour, taking taxis without having money to pay for them, alternating this behaviour with aggressiveness and irritability. Authoritarian, threatening and defiant attitude. During his admission he took personal belongings from the elderly. He reported seeing people lying in bed next to him, stating that there was a plot to harm him. He often remained isolated, withdrawn and absent.

Complementary examinations
Toxicological analysis with positive results for cannabis and cocaine. Haemogram with no relevant findings. Hepatitis and HIV serology negative. Electroencephalogram with no relevant findings.


Diagnosis
Cannabis-induced psychosis associated with borderline personality disorder.
