Anamnesis
Male, 42 years old, originally from Pakistan (he has been living in Spain for 15 years). He reported no drug allergies or toxic habits. Three months ago he had suffered a right orbital fracture with subsequent trigeminal neuralgia. He consulted for a pruritic skin rash on the trunk and extremities, high fever and general malaise of 15 days' evolution. The patient denied taking any drugs in the last two months, travelling abroad or risky sexual relations. The rest of the patient's cohabitants had no skin lesions or symptoms.

Physical examination
The patient was subfebrile (37.5c axillary), there was marked oedema of the face, hands and feet, as well as a morbilliform rash on the trunk and extremities, with palmoplantar and mucosal involvement. In addition, cervical, axillary and inguinal lymph nodes were palpable. The rest of the physical examination was unaltered.

Complementary examinations
Blood tests showed leukocytosis (22.24 x109/l) with 35% atypical lymphocytes, 15% eosinophilia (3.4 x109/l) and elevated liver enzymes (AST 77 u/l, ALT 179 u/l, GGT 414 u/l), alkaline phosphatase (221 u/l) and LDH (1427 u/l). Bilirubinaemia, prothrombin time and creatininaemia were in normal ranges. Given the elevated transaminases, an abdominal ultrasound was performed, which showed an alliasic gallbladder with thickened walls, perivesicular oedema and two lymphadenopathies at the level of the hepatic hilum. Chest X-ray showed no abnormalities.
Serology for syphilis, hepatitis B, HIV, parvovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, measles and Herpes virus 6 were negative.
Skin biopsy showed an epidermis with spongiosis changes. A perivascular lymphohistocytic inflammatory infiltrate and occasional eosinophils were observed in the dermis.

Diagnosis
Despite repeated denials of drug intake, the patient's medical history revealed that he had taken carbamazepine for trigeminal neuritis three weeks before the onset of the clinical picture. Based on the history of drug intake, clinical features and laboratory findings, we diagnosed DRESS syndrome secondary to carbamazepine.

Treatment
The patient had already discontinued carbamazepine two weeks earlier. Given the intense general compromise and hepatic alteration, we started prednisone 1 mg/kg/day orally, associated with potassium permanganate baths 3/10,000 and triamcinolone acetonide cream 0.1%.

Evolution
Evolution was favourable, with resolution of fever, rash and facial and acral oedema, and the patient was discharged one week later. Laboratory tests showed normalisation of transaminases over the following four weeks. The patient was on a tapering prednisone regimen for 3 months until it was discontinued. One year later, he remains asymptomatic.
