In June 2010, a 61-year-old man came to the internal medicine department to be examined for almost daily febrile fever and occasional fever over 38oC. His personal history included: hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, haemochromatosis under treatment with periodic bleeding up to a year earlier, ex-smoker, and a patient with a prosthetic mitral valve and stent since 2008 due to ischaemic heart disease with biventricular involvement.

Six months earlier, the patient had started to experience a progressive onset of fever, asthenia, hyporexia and cough. In March of the same year, he was referred by his primary care physician for the finding of three peripheral pulmonary micronodules measuring 5 mm. Complementary examinations revealed moderate normochromic anaemia, elevated ESR and CRP together with significant homogeneous splenomegaly. No fever was noted and he was discharged to continue the study in the outpatient department. In April he returned to the ED with fever of 38.7oC and pleuritic pain in the left hemithorax. Two blood cultures were taken and were negative after 5 days of incubation. He started empirical antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid with partial improvement of symptoms. From the internal medicine department and due to a further worsening of symptoms, it was decided to admit him. At that time he was anaemic, with iron levels of 34 mcg/dl, a blood rate of 56 mm/h and CRP of 3.6 mg/dl. Thoracic-abdominal CT showed splenomegaly with an image compatible with splenic infarcts and persistence of the aforementioned unchanged pulmonary micronodules. A transesophageal echocardiogram showed a mechanical mitral prosthesis with two vegetation images, a medial one measuring 14 x 5 mm and a lateral one measuring 13 x 4 mm on the atrial side. There was no prosthetic dysfunction. Three blood cultures were taken (aerobic and anaerobic flasks). All three anaerobic flasks grew a non-spore-forming, pleomorphic gram-positive bacillus at 7, 8 and 10 days. The isolate was sent to the Centro Nacional de Microbiología in Majadahonda where it was identified as Propionibacterium acnes by amplification and sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene. When initially reporting the growth of an anaerobic gram-positive bacillus in blood cultures, the patient was treated with vancomycin, ceftriaxone and gentamicin. Subsequently, ceftriaxone and gentamicin were replaced by clindamycin. After suspecting that the microorganism was P. acnes, it was decided to change antibiotherapy to penicillin G sodium, 4,000,000 IU every 4 hours. The patient's evolution at the start of treatment was favourable, but the reappearance of fever with peaks above 38oC after ten days, together with the results of a second transesophageal echocardiogram (unchanged from the previous one), made it advisable to perform surgery to replace the prosthesis.
