18-year-old woman with a history of congenital left renal agenesis. She was assessed for 10 days of high fever with cough and expectoration, which did not improve despite antibiotherapy. She arrived febrile and in respiratory failure. Blood tests showed leukocytosis and thrombocytosis, Quick 49%. CXR showed pleural effusion up to the apex. Thoracentesis was performed, obtaining purulent fluid (with empyema characteristics and ADA of 1U/L), a pleural drainage tube was placed. Admitted to intensive care, he remained febrile despite broad-spectrum ATB and a fistulous tract developed from the pleural cavity to the skin. Actinomyces turicensis, Fusobacterium necrophorum and Peptostreptococcus anaerobius were isolated from pleural fluid. The patient was treated with penicillin G and clindamycin. The serological and immunological study did not show immunosuppression. After 2 months of hospitalisation and good radiological evolution, the drainage could be removed. As a complication, the patient developed a skin rash (generalised maculo-papular rash, affecting the palms), with marked oedema, elevated CRP, lymphocytosis and splenomegaly (Sdme Dress). Treatment with penicillin and clindamycin was discontinued, and steroids and doxycycline were started. The evolution was favourable, with normalisation of the CXR and acute phase reactants. Antibiotic therapy was discontinued after 10 months.
Actinomycosis is a rare disease characterised by abscess formation, tissue fibrosis and fistulisation. It is caused by gram-positive, anaerobic, non-spore-forming, anaerobic bacteria of the genus Actinomyces. Colonisers of the mouth, rectum and genital tract. The most frequent sites are cervicofacial, thoracic, CNS and pelvic.
Thoracic actimomycosis may affect lung parenchyma, pleura or mediastinum. Transmission modes include microaspirations, direct extension/fistulisation of cervicofacial, mediastinal or retroperitoneal (pelvic abscess) infection.
The clinical presentation is larval, similar to tuberculosis; cough, weight loss, febrile fever and chest pain. It has been frequently described in immunocompromised patients. It is more frequent in immunocompromised patients, however in some cases no underlying disease or immunosuppression is found.
The peculiarity of the case is the acute and severe form of presentation, which is atypical for this type of infection. Furthermore, this is a young, immunocompetent patient with no primary cervicofacial/odontogenic disorders.
