Male, 33 years old, single, graduated in optics, who lives with his mother. He has worked in various jobs, having spent a maximum of three years in the same job, and has been working in a warehouse for the last month. He has no personal history of interest except for traumatological problems such as two sprains. Her father was diabetic and died of a myocardial infarction. His mother lives healthy. He has 3 siblings with a predominance of excessive drug use, one of them is a heavy user of cannabis and another one of alcohol and cocaine. His sister does not use drugs.

His previous personality is dominated by introversion traits, insecurity, with difficulty in establishing friendships but with a desire to establish them and with long-lasting and close interpersonal relationships. He has no relationship with a partner. The patient reports that he has always avoided talking in front of crowds or strangers, although he had no problems talking to his friends. In front of strangers he feels anxious and starts to stammer or experience intense sweating. He does not report fear of different social situations. Has had a variety of work activities. Usually in two types of jobs, sometimes in warehouses where he only had contact with co-workers and which he does not value as anxiogenic and other times as a shop assistant in opticians' shops where he has had difficulties working in front of the public. The first time she worked as a shop assistant in an optician's shop she was 28 years old. She experienced this situation with intense anxiety. He had a lot of customers and stuttered in front of them. This led him to make a self-harming attempt and subsequently quit his job. Two years later he went back to work in another optician's shop, also as a shop assistant, but with less customer pressure, despite which he noticed intense sweating and also left that job because of the anguish caused. She was treated at her mental health centre with benzodiazepines and her condition improved. Subsequently, he worked for three years in a warehouse without any difficulties at work, he even considers that he performed the job adequately and was expecting a promotion but, unexpectedly, he was dismissed without it being attributable, according to his comments, to labour conflicts or poor performance. After the dismissal, he became depressed in relation to this situation, which improved after a few months. He is currently working in another warehouse and has been taking prescribed escitalopram for the last two months for his anxiety symptoms, which he now considers to be not very limiting. With regard to his toxicological history, he started using hashish when he was 17 years old, at weekends with his friends. For about 8 years he has been using daily, changing hashish for marijuana, initially in the amount of about 2 cigarettes a day, in the afternoons at home, to relax. He says that at that time he was already using to calm down in relation to the anxiety caused by his first job. The period of heaviest consumption occurred at the age of 28, coinciding with her work as a shop assistant, where she consumed 5-6 cigarettes a day, starting to smoke in the morning, observing an improvement in the anxiety she had, but it was not enough to avoid the work problems described. About 2-3 years ago, she began treatment at a drug treatment centre, managing to reduce the dose consumed and have some period of abstinence, describing a mild withdrawal symptoms with insomnia and cravings. Currently, daily consumption persists but in smaller quantities. He comments that years ago he tried cocaine, LSD and ecstasy during some weekends when he went out with friends, but he did not like these drugs. He also acknowledges moderate alcohol consumption at weekends when he goes out with friends. He does not refer to legal problems associated with consumption, nor family problems, he comments that his mother has a very permissive attitude towards cannabis consumption. In the psychopathological examination, the stuttering stands out during the interview, which decreases in intensity throughout the interview, with no evidence of alterations in mood, sensory-perceptual or thought content. The patient is very cooperative and adequate during the examination.
