A 33-year-old male patient with a history of Schönlein-Henoch purpura at 16 years of age and plegia of the left arm secondary to traumatic injury to the brachial plexus at 19 years of age, who underwent excision of a chordoma at the craniocervical junction, previously manifested by intense cervicalgia and paraesthesia in the left upper limb (MSI). He had a good immediate evolution after surgery, and was discharged with a descending regimen of dexamethasone.

One month later, he was readmitted to the Neurosurgery Department with fever of up to 38.5o, pain in the surgical area and fluctuating collection in the scar area, with no meningeal signs or signs of infection at the surgical wound. In the physical examination, the only notable feature was the limitation of MSI abduction.

On admission, previous treatment with corticosteroids was suspended, and a complete blood test was performed, which was normal, with 7,500 leukocytes (60% neutrophils), C-reactive protein 5.6 mg/l and procalcitonin 0.2 ng/ml, as well as a lumbar puncture, whose analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed: 220 cells (80% lymphocytes), protein 105 mg/dl, glucose 21.8 mg/dl. Treatment was started with meropenem (2 g. iv/8 h) and linezolid (600 mg. iv/12 h). Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, which showed an isointense collection around the craniotomy area and in the craniocervical hinge, with associated leptomeningeal enhancement and extending to the level corresponding to the lower vertebral plateau of C3, without describing whether the most likely origin was tumoural or infectious remains. The collection was punctured and found to be CSF. The CSF culture was negative. Antibiotic treatment was given for 14 days, during which the patient remained afebrile and asymptomatic. A lumbar puncture was performed at the end of treatment with the following results: 40 leukocytes, protein 93 mg/dl and glucose 1.3 mg/dl. It was at this point that the case was referred to us.

Differential diagnosis
This was a case of healthcare-related meningitis, the main "guiding factor" available to us being the patient's hypoglycaemia. The main causes of hypoglycorrhoea are: 
1. Infectious: bacteria (in principle, CSF glucose less than 18mg/dl is highly suggestive of bacterial meningitis) mainly Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis or Listeria monocytogenes; mycobacteria, fungi or viruses (mumps, enterovirus, lymphocytic choriomeningitis, Herpes Simplex Virus, Varicella Zoster Virus).
2. Meningeal carcinomatosis.
3. Subarachnoid haemorrhage.
4. Sarcoidosis with central nervous system involvement: occurs in 5-25% of patients with systemic involvement, and the most frequent MRI findings are leptomeningeal enhancement due to granulomatous leptomeningitis with fundamental involvement of the basal cisterns, with dilatation of these due to obstruction of the aqueduct of Sylvius. Less frequent is the presence of single or multiple intra-axial masses secondary to dissemination of the granulomatous disease.
5. False result due to analytical interference CSF cytology was negative for neoplastic cells. There was no evidence of CSF or MRI bleeding, no focal parenchymal or meningeal lesions, so meningeal carcinomatosis, subarachnoid haemorrhage and sarcoidosis seem unlikely or ruled out as causes of hypoglycorrhoea. On the other hand, no cases of hypoglycaemia secondary to treatment with linezolid or meropenem have been reported so far. CSF was analysed in different kits, and the dilution technique was performed, confirming the hypoglycaemia data and ruling out analytical interference. Therefore, the main aetiology to be ruled out was infectious.

Post-surgical meningitis is a rare complication (0.3-1.5%), although of undoubted clinical significance. The differential diagnosis led us to rule out post-surgical aseptic meningitis, given the hypoglycaemia and hyperproteinaemia. Epidemiologically, the main aetiological agents of post-surgical bacterial meningitis or after penetrating brain trauma are staphylococci and facultative aerobic gram-negative bacilli (including Pseudomonas aeruginosa). In patients with permanent device placement (e.g. ventriculo-peritoneal shunt), infections are mainly caused by germs present on the skin, such as Propionibacterium acnes. Our patient would be included in the first risk group. However, these germs usually cause infection in the immediate postoperative period and are accompanied by clinical severity of the patient and marked elevation of acute phase reactants, unlike our patient, so we thought it had to be another, less common germ.

Evolution
Since admission, the patient has remained afebrile, presenting only mild cervicalgia, and without elevation of acute phase reactants at any time. Surprisingly, the patient's general condition was good throughout admission: he was smoking a cigarette in the street when we went to visit him. After re-evaluating the patient clinically, and given the discordance between the clinical and analytical results, we decided to perform a new lumbar puncture, which confirmed the hypoglycaemia, elevated protein and lactate levels. The Gram stain showed no microorganisms, but the smear microscopy detected acid-fast bacilli, and the detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (GeneXpert MTB/RIF®) was negative. We decided to start treatment with suspected non-tuberculosis mycobacterial infection, with amikacin 1g/day i.m., levofloxacin 500 mg/day v.o. and clarithromycin 500 mg/12 h. v.o. The patient remains afebrile and afebrile.

The patient remains afebrile with improvement of initial symptoms. Treatment with amikacin i.m. was discontinued after one month due to intolerance, levofloxacin was discontinued after 46 days of treatment due to bilateral patellar tendinitis (not confirmed by ultrasound, but resolved after discontinuation of the drug) and clarithromycin was maintained for 56 days, discontinued after normalisation of the CSF, which remained without biochemical alterations and with negative microbiological studies in a control performed a month and a half after the end of antibiotic treatment.

Final diagnosis
Post-surgical meningitis due to atypical mycobacteria, probably fast-growing.
