Juana is a 48 year old patient who consulted us because she had been suffering from generalised pruritus for a month. She explained that she had been on holiday in a mountainous area in South America, where she started to develop small, very pruritic lesions on both arms. As she had so much itching, she was visited and the symptoms were diagnosed as mosquito bites. Treatment with topical corticosteroids was then started. Despite treatment, the patient still had pruritus and more lesions had appeared.

We questioned the patient again about her trip and she explained that it had been an adventure trip, and that she had slept many nights in mountain refuges, in beds that had been prepared. 

We also asked about her symptoms and she told us that she can still stand the itching during the day, but at night she cannot stop scratching, which has prevented her from resting well for many days.

He has lesions on his arms and buttocks, many with excoriations secondary to scratching, and he also has lesions on his legs and hands. There are no lesions on the head or neck. This is typical of scabies in adults, it respects palms, soles and head.

In some patients very characteristic interdigital lesions such as the acarine furrow can be seen.

In children there may be cephalic involvement as well as vesicles and/or pustules on palms and soles.

Diagnosis is clinical. If we want to make a diagnostic test, we could use the Müller test, which consists of visualising the mites under the microscope. We could also use the dermatoscope: sometimes a delta wing lesion can be visualised.

Well, at this point I think it is clear that we suspect scabies in this patient, both because of the history of having slept in a shared shelter, and because of the lesions and the predominantly nocturnal pruritus she presents.

The treatment of choice is permethrin 5%, one application at the present time and a second application after 7 days. Treatment is not recommended for children under two months of age.

Although it may seem that by treating the affected person the case is solved, this is not the case. A very important part of the treatment consists of eliminating the mite from clothing and fabrics that have been in contact with the affected person. For this purpose, as much clothing as possible should be washed at 60oC. If this is not possible, the recommendation is to put them in dark plastic bags, tightly closed, and keep them for 1 week, so that the mite dies. If we still have a sofa or mattress where we cannot use either of the two previous treatments, we can use insecticide sprays (Grade C recommendation).
