Personal history
Male, 47 years old, moderate drinker with no medical history of interest, except for frequent trips (1-2 per year) to the Dominican Republic for the last twenty years.

Present illness
During the last trip to the Dominican Republic, he presented an episode of diarrhoea without pathological products that was treated empirically with metronidazole, with a good response. On his return, he consulted for a month-long episode of diarrhoea (10-15 stools/day), with steatorrhoeic stools, without pathological products and accompanied by a weight loss of about fourteen kilos.

Physical examination
The patient was not jaundiced. Cardiorespiratory auscultation showed no pathological findings. The abdominal examination was normal, with no palpation of masses or organomegaly, and no lymph nodes were palpable.

Complementary examinations
The haemogram and biochemical analysis, including ESR, CRP, LDH, iron metabolism, vitamin B12 and folic acid were normal. Quantification of fat in 24-hour stool was pathological, the result being 33 g (normal value <6 g). Stool microbiology (stool culture, parasites, mycobacteria, Clostridium difficile toxin and Giardia lamblia antigen) was negative. Entamoeba histolytica serology was positive at a titre of 1/32 by IFA (IgG). HIV serology was negative. Anti-gliadin and anti-endomysial antibodies were negative.
Barium intestinal transit showed discrete dilatation of the loops with dilution of the loops and multiple repletion defects with fragmentation and segmentation of the contrast medium suggestive of malabsorption.

Diagnostic test
Upper endoscopy with duodenal biopsy showed partial villous atrophy, cryptic hyperplasia, intraepithelial lymphocytosis (immunophenotype CD3+ and CD8+) and negative microbiology.

Clinical judgement
Tropical sprue.

Evolution
Empirical treatment with metronidazole was started on suspicion of G. lamblia infection without clinical improvement. Subsequently, after diagnosis, treatment was started with tetracycline hydrochloride 250 mg/6 hours and folic acid 10 mg/day with disappearance of symptoms in 48 hours and weight gain. After one year of follow-up there have been no recurrences.
