We present the case of a 41-year-old male, with no known drug allergies. His personal history includes arterial hypertension and extrinsic asthma. He has been receiving regular treatment with enalapril/hydrochlorothiazide for 3 years.

The patient attended the emergency department of our centre in October 2014 due to pain in the right iliac fossa for the last 4 days. The pain was moderate in intensity and partially improved with the usual analgesia. It is not attenuated/exacerbated by food intake and/or postural movements and is not accompanied by other gastrointestinal symptoms (nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and/or constipation) or systemic symptoms (fever, weight loss, asthenia, etc.).

On physical examination he was in good general condition, haemodynamically stable, afebrile and eupnoeic, breathing room air. No signs of dehydration or cutaneous-mucosal lesions were observed. The neurological and cardiopulmonary examination was unremarkable.

At the abdominal level, a non-painful mass was palpated in the right flank with a hard consistency, adhering to deep planes. Complementary tests revealed a leukocytosis of 11930/μL with eosinophilia of 1500/μL and CRP of 37.41 mg/l, as the only notable values. Abdominal CT reported a thickening at the level of the ascending colon that produced stenosis of the lumen, of probable neoplastic origin, with no evidence of pelvic or retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy. The study was completed with colonoscopy, visualising an intraluminal growth lesion at the level of the ascending colon, ulcerated and bleeding to the touch. Biopsies were taken showing non-specific inflammatory changes, with no histological signs of malignancy.

Differential diagnosis
This is a young patient with a recent abdominal mass. He has no relevant family history or predictors of colonic neoplastic disease. On the other hand, the current picture is subacute and there are no clinical data suggestive of malignancy such as weight loss or altered bowel habit. Nevertheless, it seems reasonable to establish the suspicion of colon neoplasia as the first diagnostic possibility. Another pathology to be considered could be inflammatory bowel disease. From the point of view of infectious diseases, we should not forget intestinal actinomycosis as a cause of abdominal mass. On the other hand, in the case of our patient, the presence of eosinophilia in peripheral blood, which, although it could be attributed to a history of extrinsic asthma, forces us to rule out parasitosis. Lastly, although less likely, the possibility of intestinal tuberculosis could also be considered.

Evolution
Given the suspicion of a neoformative process, surgery was decided. Right hemicolectomy was performed without incident. The anatomopathological diagnosis was a focal, granulomatous, necrotising, palisading, granulomatous inflammatory process with intense eosinophilia, compatible with invasive colonic anisakiasis. The patient was referred to the outpatient infectious diseases department. On a directed anamnesis, he reported eating undercooked fish almost daily. Anisakis IgE serology was requested and was positive (3.59 kUA/l) and treatment was started with albendazole 400 mg/12h for 21 days. On review after completion of treatment, the patient was asymptomatic and without eosinophilia.

Final diagnosis
Invasive colonic anikasiasis
