67-year-old male with a history of hypertension, dyslipidaemia, stenosis of the left post-vertebral subclavian artery, hypothyroidism, squamous cell carcinoma operated on in 2013 and panuveitis of the left eye in 2016 of possible tuberculous origin. Currently on treatment with simvastatin, omeprazole, levothyroxine and atenolol.
She came to the emergency department for pain, swelling and increased temperature in her right knee three days after a holiday trip. No thermometric fever or associated dysthermic sensation. She reported a progressive increase in dorsal-lumbar pain, previously treated with local heat that caused a burn. In addition, his relatives had noticed drooping of the right eyelid, for which reason they had gone to the emergency department three days earlier and Neurology diagnosed incomplete Horner's Syndrome, requesting MRI for study. No neurological focality or visual symptoms.
Arthrocentesis was performed in the Emergency Department, with isolation of S. agalactiae. Drainage was performed (atrotomy+synovectomy) and treatment was started with Ampicillin.
During admission the patient presented fever of up to 38.5oC with torpid evolution of the knee and persistent positive cultures for S.agalactiae, so a new open surgical lavage was performed, with good subsequent evolution, with negative cultures and no other added symptoms. During admission, MRI was performed with diagnoses compatible with meningitis, ventriculitis and spondylodiscitis T8-T10, with associated epidural mass, with positive multiple PCR for S. agalactiae, with negative cultures. In view of these findings, intravenous antibiotherapy with penicillin G and linezolid was reintroduced due to the good penetration of the latter in CSF. Finally, the patient had a good clinical and analytical evolution and was discharged with oral Linezolid treatment, with a diagnosis of invasive disease due to Streptococcus agalactiae with joint and meningeal involvement and associated spondylodiscitis.
On subsequent outpatient review, the patient presented asthenia, paraesthesia, with loss of ROTS, so EMG was performed with a diagnosis of axonal sensory-motor polyneuropathy, probably secondary to linezolid, together with anaemia and thrombopenia, so the drug was discontinued. Subsequent check-ups showed no clinical or analytical data of recurrence.
