A 61-year-old man, with no medical or surgical history of interest and who had been complaining of fever for a week. He was admitted to his referral hospital, where he observed bacteraemia due to S. viridans group and a possible wart on the mitral valve, and was transferred to our centre to assess surgery for suspected infective endocarditis. Targeted antibiotic treatment was started there.
At our hospital he was in good general condition and was febrile. Physical examination was normal. After continuing antibiotic treatment, the patient remained with daily fever and did not report any symptoms suggesting an origin. Serial blood cultures were negative, chest X-ray and abdominal ultrasound were unremarkable and echocardiography was normal. On the 5th day of admission, a CT scan showed a 5.5 cm liver abscess in segment III of the left hepatic lobe and a "foreign body" passing through the distal wall of the gastric antrum and impacting the adjacent hepatic parenchyma. Gastroscopy revealed only an antral hyperemic mucosa. General surgery was contacted and the collection was drained. The patient's subsequent evolution was satisfactory with disappearance of fever and progressive improvement in general condition. Surgical cultures showed Streptococcus anginosus group, Prevotella intermedia and Veillonella parvula and a fishbone was identified in the purulent material.
Streptococcus group anginosus is considered part of the Streptococcus group viridans. In general, within this group, the species S. anginosus has been associated with bacteraemia and the other two species, S. constellatus and S. intermedius are associated with abscess production. In liver abscesses secondary to gastrointestinal foreign body perforation, the non-specific and variable symptomatology of this entity, as well as the fact that patients often do not remember the time of ingestion, make the diagnosis of foreign body liver perforation even more complicated. In our patient, the abscess originated from migration through the gastric wall of a fish bone.
