CLINICAL HISTORY
This is a 64 year old male patient who came to our clinic diagnosed with retinal detachment in the left eye two days ago with a sudden decrease in visual acuity in this eye and who also reported blurred vision in the right eye. His personal history includes a liver transplant six months ago due to alpha-one antitrypsin deficiency and he has been receiving treatment with prednisone tablets since the transplant, currently 5 mg/day, and mycophenolate mofetil. He also reports insulin-dependent diabetes.

EXPLORATION
During the examination, visual acuity in the right eye was found to be 20/80 and visual acuity in the left eye of light perception and localisation. Ocular pressure in the right eye is 25 mmHg and in the left eye 12 mmHg. Examination of the anterior segment shows keratic precipitates of intermediate size occupying the entire endothelial surface in both eyes with the presence of Tyndall's between one and two crosses. In the posterior segment, symmetrical bilateral dense vitreous opacity is observed, with vitreitis and abundant brown pigment that hinders visualisation of the retina. Retinal detachment was also observed in the left eye with a bullous appearance, with a possible tear at the 12 o'clock level and extreme thinning of the retina. Mode A and B ultrasound was performed and showed intense vitreitis in the right eye, posterior vitreous detachment without retinal detachment and posterior vitreous detachment in the left eye, posterior vitreous detachment, bullous retinal detachment affecting the macular area.

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS
Due to the high inflammation observed in both the anterior and posterior segments, it is concluded that this is a patient with bilateral high-risk panuveitis with retinal detachment in the left eye, with the appearance of necrotising retinitis. Taking into account that this is a transplant patient with immunosuppression with mycophenolate mofetil, we are inclined towards infectious uveitis with necrotising retinitis that has caused retinal detachment in the left eye. Due to the high risk of vitreoretinal proliferation and postoperative inflammation in these patients, we decided to perform scleral surgery associated with vitrectomy. Since Polymerase Chain reaction (PCR) is the best test that can detect the infectious agent, a vitreous humour sample is taken during the same surgical procedure.

TREATMENT
Pars plana vitrectomy with 25 G is performed at the beginning of the operation, using air infusion to achieve a higher concentration of vitreous humour and to make the sample richer in infectious agent. Subsequently, the infusion was changed to liquid and a posterior detachment of very dense vitreous was observed, opacified by the degree of chronic inflammation, and an extremely thinned and necrotic retina in several nasal and temporal foci, with rupture at 12 hours. Liquid perfluorocarbon and air were introduced to reapply the retina and laser photocoagulation was performed around the areas of necrotising retinitis and the tear at 12 hours. At the end of the operation, taking into account the risks of vitreoretinal proliferation (PVR), a replacement with 5000 ctsk silicone oil is performed.
Analysis of the vitreous sample by PCR gave an undetectable titre for herpes simplex (HSV), herpes zoster (HZV) and toxoplasma, and the titre for cytomegalovirus (CMV) was 3,312,290 c/ml. Treatment was started with oral valganciclovir 900 mg daily for four weeks. The postoperative period was satisfactory, with total retinal reapplication. In the left eye, the retina is fully applied with areas of laser-induced whitening around the area of necrotising retinitis and circumferential band-induced indentation. After two months, the silicone oil is removed and the retina is maintained in its anatomical position. Optical coherence tomography shows discrete disorganisation and atrophy of the inner and outer retina, with no macular oedema. The final visual acuity was 20/40 in the left eye. Surgery was therefore decided on for the contralateral eye. A vitreous biopsy was also performed under air and large areas of necrotising retinitis with active borders were observed, but without retinal detachment. Complete vitrectomy and green laser photocoagulation were performed around the areas of retinal necrosis, and hyalinisation of the retinal vessels was also observed. Due to the absence of retinal detachment in this eye, a replacement with a non-expandable C3F8 mixture instead of silicone oil was performed. The result is PCR negative for HSV, HZV and toxoplasma, and positive for CMV at a level of 14 843 680 c/ml. As a result, treatment with oral valganciclovir 900 mg per day is continued.
Remains of gas are still observed in the upper part, the gas disappears after 2 weeks, areas of necrotising retinitis surrounded by laser, cystic macular oedema at the macula and in the extreme horizontal section thinning of the retina in the area temporal to the macula where the necrotising retinitis begins. The final visual acuity is 20/30 in the right eye.
Classic CMV retinitis at the posterior pole with areas of necrosis/ischemia and haemorrhages has been extensively described in the literature1. However, the chronic or subacute course of this patient has recently been described as chronic retinal necrosis in partially immunocompromised patients, similar to that seen with HSV/VZV in immunocompetent patients2. The patients described in the publication by Schneider et al. had similar clinical features and were immunosuppressed with mycophenolate mofetil or steroids. This picture represents an intermediate presentation between classical CMV retinitis and necrotising retinitis of the HSV/HZV group3.
