Reason for consultation
An 11-year-old boy with self-limited diarrhoea and good general condition. One week later, he presented with petechial cutaneous migratory exanthema. After five days with this exanthema, it worsened and he started with catarrhal symptoms and an isolated febrile peak of 38o, for which he went to the emergency department.

Individual approach
As personal history, the patient has atopic dermatitis and cypress allergy. He is well vaccinated and has no known drug allergies.
Family history: Brother with suspected coeliac disease and IgA deficiency. Paternal branch: several relatives with coeliac disease. Maternal branch: aunt with IMD and autoimmune thyroiditis.
In February the patient consulted the emergency department for a petechial migratory exanthema of one week's duration. It started on the lower limbs and abdomen, later appearing on the back and upper limbs. On the same day he came to the emergency department he presented cough, nasal congestion and odynophagia, with an isolated febrile peak of 38°C. Two weeks earlier he reported diarrhoea without pathological products, self-limited.
Examination revealed a generalised micropetechial rash that did not disappear on pressure, more prominent in the lumbar region, abdomen and shoulders. Several haematomas on the elbows with no memory of associated trauma. No active mucosal bleeding, although he does report frequent epistaxis, with no episodes in the last week.
Respiratory auscultation was normal and the oropharynx was hyperemic with no exudates and petechiae on the palate.
Due to these symptoms, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) was suspected, and a blood test was performed showing platelets with a level of 7,000/μL. There were no alterations in other series or coagulation alterations.
The patient was admitted to the oncohaematology department and peripheral blood was drawn to study ITP prior to treatment.
Treatment was started with intravenous non-specific human immunoglobulin 800mg/kg, with an excellent clinical response and an increase in platelets of >100,000 in 48 hours. The only side effects were a fever of 37.4o and headache (VAS 5) which improved with the usual analgesics. Discharge was decided after a favourable evolution.
One week later, the patient visited the clinic to receive the results of an analytical study, aimed at ruling out active infections (HIV, CMV, EBV, CHS, HAV, HBV, HCV, toxoplasma, varicella-zoster virus and rubella), systemic, autoimmune and hereditary diseases, without finding any alterations.

Family and community approach
In the case of this patient, we are talking about a nuclear family, with good family support and a good cultural level, so that appropriate education is carried out to identify signs that indicate severe active bleeding.

Clinical judgement
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura is an autoimmune disorder caused by the appearance of antiplatelet antibodies that induce platelet destruction at the peripheral level. Our patient has a recently diagnosed ITP (up to three months old) and should be followed up, as it is a disease that can be persistent and even chronic.

Action plan
The aim of treatment is to prevent haemorrhagic symptoms and not to correct the platelet count. Treatment is started immediately in cases of active mucosal bleeding.
Our patient presented with exclusively cutaneous bleeding, so an ITP study was performed before starting treatment. The drugs used as first line are prednisone/methylprednisolone iv in 3 doses or human non-specific immunoglobulin iv one dose, with no consensus or evidence of the advantage of one option over the other.
At discharge, patient and family should monitor for signs of mucosal bleeding, urine colour and appearance of bruising or petechiae. Initially, traumatic risk activities and sporting activity should be avoided, changing this guideline at a later date according to evolution.

Evolution
Despite the recent diagnosis of the disease, we can say that it has a favourable evolution, with a rapid response to treatment with immunoglobulin. This patient should continue to be monitored, controlling platelet levels, as the disease may be persistent or chronic.
