58-year-old male, no known drug allergies with a history of hypertension. Smoker and active drinker. Cocaine user and presumably other intoxicants. He had liver cirrhosis of mixed aetiology (HCV genotype 3A infection, never treated, and enolism) with a Child Pugh 12-C and multiple hydropic decompensations, the first in 2014, with no other known data. She was on home treatment with spironolactone 100mg at breakfast, furosemide 40mg at lunch, a sachet of lactulose every 12 hours, clomethiazole at night, folic acid 5mg every 24 hours and omeprazole 20mg at breakfast, supervised and administered by her primary caregiver.
She attended the emergency department for liquid stools for 4 days (up to 20 in the last 24 hours), nausea without vomiting and episodes of disorientation with frequent falls, as well as increased oedema in the lower limbs, more noticeable in the right lower limb accompanied by warmth, flushing and pain.
On physical examination he was conscious but uncooperative, disoriented, with good hydration and perfusion, eupneic at rest with baseline oxygen saturation of 97%, and multiple ecchymosis on the arms. Cardiac auscultation with pure and rhythmic tones with normal frequency and no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur bilaterally without associated pathological sounds. Abdomen was globular, with ascites without tension and preserved peristalsis. Both lower limbs showed oedema with fovea up to the root of the lower limbs with evidence of cellulitis in the right lower limb.
In the ED analysis, creatinine 0.88 mg/dl, total bilirubin 7.41 mg/dl with direct bilirubin 3.90 mg/dl, GGT 221.00 U/L, alkaline phosphatase 120 U/L, sodium 134 mEq/l, potassium 3.2 mEq/l, CRP 112.10 mg/L were observed in the biochemistry. Haemogram without leukocytosis, haemoglobin 12.30 g/dl with mean corpuscular volume 113.40 fl, 50000 platelets/mm3. Coagulation with prothrombin activity 43%, prothrombin time 1.63 with normal fibrinogen, D-dimer 8.25 [0 - 0.5]. Chest X-ray showed no findings of interest. On admission, a Doppler ultrasound of the right lower limb was requested, ruling out the presence of deep vein thrombosis, as well as an abdominal ultrasound showing a cirrhotic liver with diffusely heterogeneous parenchyma without space-occupying lesions. Normal calibre portal portal, permeable with umbilical repermeabilisation. Splenomegaly up to 17 cm in longitudinal diameter. Distended gallbladder with no evidence of lithiasis and abundant ascites. On arrival at the emergency department, the patient was febrile and blood cultures were taken.

Differential diagnosis
In this case, fever is the most frequent clinical manifestation of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and should be suspected in patients with liver cirrhosis presenting with fever, abdominal pain, impaired consciousness, hypotension or diarrhoea. It is important to appreciate that patients with advanced liver cirrhosis are often mildly hypothermic. Diffuse abdominal pain is the hallmark of peritonitis. However, the pain may be very subtle due to the presence of ascites, and some patients remain asymptomatic. The pain is usually diffuse and continuous, different from the pain induced by stretching of the abdominal wall due to tension ascites. On the other hand, the clinical sign of infection, often overlooked in the patient with cirrhosis, is a subtle change in mental status, occurring in half of patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. Both the infection itself and hepatic decompensation may contribute to this problem. When signs suggestive of cellulitis are found, the most common cause is beta haemolytic streptococci (A, B, C, G and F), especially Streptococcus pyogenes. S. aureus infection (both methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant) is also common. Infection by gram-negative bacilli, although less frequent, deserves our attention, especially in patients immunocompromised for any reason, including Pasteurella multocida, Capnocytophaga canimorsus (a priori there has been no bite or wound by domestic animals), Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Aeromonas hydrophila, Vibrio vulnificus (although there is no evidence of exposure to seawater or ingestion of seafood or raw fish), among others2 . Streptococcus agalactiae is being described in infections of mainly older adults or those with diseases involving a certain degree of immunosuppression such as diabetes or cirrhosis.
On the other hand, the main causes of acute infectious diarrhoea include viruses (norovirus, rotavirus, adenovirus, astrovirus and others), bacteria (Salmonella spp, Campylobacter spp, Shigella spp, enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli, Clostridioides, Vibrio spp...), and protozoa (Cryptosidia, Giardia, Cyclospora, Entamoeba...). Overall, most cases of acute infectious diarrhoea are probably viral. However, in cases of severe diarrhoea such as that of our patient, bacterial causes are responsible for a large part of them.
There is the possibility of primary septicaemia, which usually presents with fever, hypotension or a change in mental status, with the gastrointestinal tract being an important source of infection, as demonstrated by the isolation of various enteric organisms in patients with liver cirrhosis. Causes of increased bacterial infections include disruption of the intestinal permeability barrier, bacterial overgrowth and reduced host immune defences. Portal hypertension, by producing structural changes in the intestinal mucosa, facilitates the invasion of intestinal bacteria in cases of liver cirrhosis.
Integrating the information previously described, infection with bacteria such as Vibrio spp. in patients with liver cirrhosis usually begins with sudden onset fever and chills, diarrhoea and sometimes tarry stools, together with secondary skin lesions, including ecchymosis, blisters or cellulitis and associated with severe pain, developing within 24 hours after the onset of fever.

Evolution
Twenty-four hours after admission, the microbiology department reported growth of Vibrio vulnificus in the blood cultures taken in the emergency department, and the patient was treated with ceftriaxone, doxycycline and cloxacillin adjusted to renal function (initially with ceftriaxone and cloxacillin). With regard to the hydropic decompensation, the encephalopathy progressively worsened to grade IV, despite treatment with enemas every 8 hours, and the associated significant coagulopathy persisted, and she was treated with vitamin K. At 72 hours he presented acute renal failure, oliguria, despite bladder catheterisation, and haematuric urine that was finally dark, associated with tubular necrosis of presumably mixed origin (hepatorenal syndrome and severe sepsis). Nephrology was consulted and the patient was not a candidate for invasive measures. Despite intensive treatment with serum therapy, antibiotic therapy, bicarbonate, vitamin K, enemas every 8 hours, etc., he presented an unfavourable clinical evolution with disconnection from the environment, hypotensive tendency, anasarca, basal oxygen saturation of 87% with rales and heart rate of 65 bpm. Given the poor evolution and coagulaopathy, evacuating paracentesis was not performed due to the low benefit expected from it. The family was informed at all times of the serious clinical situation and poor prognosis, and the patient died seven days after admission.

Final diagnosis
Vibrio vulnificus bacteraemia with no known epidemiological history. Acute on chronic liver failure (MELD 21). Hydropic decompensation in a patient with cirrhosis of mixed aetiology (HCV and enolopathy) with grade IV encephalopathy. Acute renal failure of mixed aetiology. Multi-organ failure.
