75-year-old male, with no known drug allergies or toxic habits. With a history of arterial hypertension, peptic ulcus, pollinosis and right ocular prosthesis. He receives annual flu vaccination and follows regular treatment with enalapril, chlorthalidone and omeprazole. He was admitted a fortnight ago, after returning from a trip to Benidorm, for presenting with a barely productive cough, dyspnoea and chest pain with mechanical characteristics, as well as intense lumbosciatica with weakness in the lower limbs, progressively increasing until it became incapacitating, associated with arthromyalgia and generalised weakness, constipation and hyporexia. She denied abdominal pain, fever, dysthermia, vomiting or dysuria. She had been treated with corticosteroids and analgesics a few days earlier without improvement.

On physical examination he was conscious and oriented, slightly bradypsychic, eupneic and afebrile, well hydrated and perfused. On arrival at the emergency department, a low-grade fever was observed. Oxygen saturation 91% with FiO2 0.21. No neurological focality, nuchal rigidity or meningeal signs. Weakness and pain on movement of the right limbs, more intense in the lower limbs. Cardiorespiratory auscultation: rhythmic with normal frequency, very weak tones without murmurs, friction or extratones; vesicular murmur globally diminished with crackles in the bases. Abdomen globular, soft and depressible, slightly painful to palpation in a generalised manner, with normal bowel sounds. Pustular and scratching lesions on the trunk. Lower limbs without oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.

The following complementary tests were performed: CBC: haemoglobin 13.8 g/dL, leucocytes 16,880/mm3, neutrophils 92%, platelets 88,000/mm3. Coagulation: prothrombin activity 69%, fibrinogen 12. g/L, D-dimer 2845 ng/mL. GOT 93 U/L, GPT 137 U/L, GGT 267 U/L, amylase 126 U/L, rest normal CRP: 410 mg/l. ESR 133 mm/h. Procalcitonin 1.8 ng/ml. Proteinogram: increased alpha-globulins and polyclonal hypergemaglobulinaemia Immunoglobulins: increased IgG and IgA. Immunofixation on three occasions normal. Tumour markers (AFP, CEA, Ca-19.9 and PSA) normal. Immunology: ANA and anti-DNA negative. ANCA positive with atypical perinuclear pattern on two occasions, with negative pANCA and c-ANCA. Thyroid profile: pituitary braking (TSH 0.22 with normal free T4). Two rounds of blood cultures were performed, which were negative, as well as pneumococcal and Legionella antigenuria in urine. Urine sediment showed bacteriuria without leukocyturia with the presence of nitrites and microhaematuria. An electrocardiogram was performed with sinus tachycardia as the only finding. Chest X-ray (chest X-ray: bilateral peripheral infiltrates) showed bilateral peripheral infiltrates and the dorsolumbar spine X-ray showed signs of degenerative osteoarthritis, with no other findings of interest. Given the presence of dyspnoea, chest pain and low oxygen saturation, as well as elevated D-dimer in a patient with immobilisation in recent days secondary to the functional disability caused by back pain, without having carried out thromboprophylaxis, and given that the chest X-ray showed peripheral pulmonary infiltrates that could be pulmonary infarcts, chest CT angiography was performed (chest CT angiography w/o multiple alveolar infiltrates, chest CT angiography with multiple alveolar infiltrates, chest CT angiography with multiple alveolar infiltrates, chest CT angiography with multiple alveolar infiltrates, chest CT angiography with multiple alveolar infiltrates, chest CT angiography with multiple alveolar infiltrates and chest CT angiography with multiple alveolar infiltrates): multiple alveolar infiltrates distributed bilaterally, some with transformation into cystic cavities) was performed to rule out pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE) in the first instance, ruling out signs of PTE and finding multiple alveolar infiltrates distributed bilaterally, some with transformation into cystic cavities.
Given the intensity of the clinical manifestations and the findings of the complementary tests performed, the patient was admitted to the Infectious Diseases Department with a clinical diagnosis of bilateral cavitary infiltrates suggestive of multilobar pneumonia and empirical antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin and ceftriaxone. On admission, the CURB-65 and FINE scales were performed and a high mortality risk score was obtained for both scales.

Differential diagnosis
The differential diagnosis of cavitated pulmonary nodules is a great challenge in which the clinical features, iconography and laboratory results are crucial for the definitive diagnosis. Our patient was admitted for pulmonary cavitated lesions with a bilateral distribution of oligosymptomatic course together with acute onset lumbar pain. Although the aetiology of the condition was suspected to be infectious, given the scarcity of symptoms in contrast to the extensive radiological involvement, other causes could not be ruled out, including the following: Infections: Cavitated lung lesions are usually lung abscesses that are usually caused by polymicrobial infections. The main aetiology is usually bacterial, especially anerobes that are part of the oral cavity flora (Prevotella spp, Bacteroides spp and Fusobacterium spp) and less frequently facultative anaerobes (Streptococcus anginosus and other streptococci). Bacteria that can produce monomicrobial abscesses include: Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Burkholderia pseudomallei, Haemophilus influenzae type B, Legionella spp, Nocardia spp and Actinomyces spp. Other non-bacterial pathogens, such as some endemic fungi (Histoplasma capsulatum, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Coccidioides spp, Mucor spp) as well as opportunistic fungi (Aspergillus spp, Cryptococcus spp) and parasites (Entamoeba histolytica, Paragonimus westermani) can also manifest themselves in this way. In the case of aspergillosis the radiological manifestations vary depending on the form of the disease and immunological status of the patient; one of the most frequently observed findings is the development of single or multiple thick-walled cavitated lesions distributed in the upper lobes associated with focal alveolar opacities and diffuse infiltrates of the lung parenchyma. Mycobacterium tuberculosis deserves special mention. Its most frequent manifestation (in 40% of cases) is the presence of infiltrates in the lung parenchyma with multiple satellite nodules and cavitated lesions. These findings are preferentially located in the upper lobes and apical segments of the lower lobes, with the cavities presenting internal walls that can be either smooth or (more frequently) more irregular and coarse. On the other hand, the relative frequency of tuberculous spondylodiscitis is 15-25%, being more frequent in the lower dorsal spine, although it can affect the lumbar spine, as well as affecting several vertebrae and causing neurological symptoms. Other non-tuberculous mycobacteria (Mycobacterium avium, Mycobacterium kansasii) can also develop cavitations. When the location of the pulmonary nodules is multiple and predominantly peripheral or subpleural in different stages of cavitation, it is important to rule out a septic emboligenic aetiology. Radiographically, it manifests as nodular pulmonary opacities with a tendency to cavitation, abscesses and pulmonary infarcts. They are usually secondary to bacteraemia or endocarditis on right heart valves that send the pathogen to different locations. Complications of septic embolism include vertebral osteomyelitis and septic arthritis. The possibility of septic arthritis should be considered when multiple joints are affected and the axial skeleton is particularly susceptible, especially when the causative germ is Staphylococcus aureus. Spondylodiscitis most frequently appears in the lumbar spine and in the absence of surgical intervention, its seeding is almost exclusively by haematogenous route. In our environment, the main infectious aetiologies are: pyogenic bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus (40-65%), coagulase-negative staphylococci, Enterobacteriaceae, other gram-negative bacilli and beta-hemolytic streptococci), tuberculosis and brucellosis. The initial imaging study may be negative when the presentation is acute, so if the clinical presentation persists, repeat testing should be performed.
On the other hand, these lesions may also be of non-infectious aetiology, including within the differential diagnosis pulmonary vascular pathology such as PTE in which cavitary lesions secondary to pulmonary infarcts may appear. They appear in 10% of cases and are caused by small thrombi that obliterate segmental or subsegmental vessels. They usually present peripheral and multiple distribution and may provoke an intense inflammatory response. In this context, symptoms of deep vein thrombosis may appear, which may manifest as lower back or lower limb pain depending on the level of involvement. On the other hand, many rheumatological diseases present pulmonary manifestations at the onset or in the course of the pathology, however, the presence of cavitated nodules is unusual. The exception is Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), a necrotising systemic vasculitis affecting the upper and lower respiratory tract. Radiologically it manifests with multiple transient and recurrent bilateral nodules/masses, which may cavitate either by necrosis per se or by arterial occlusion, usually in the absence of treatment. Cavitated lung lesions have been described in other diseases such as primary amyloidosis, ankylosing spondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, polyarteritis nodosa and systemic lupus erythematosus, always under consideration of the possibility of infectious aetiology in these patients, generally subjected to long-term immunosuppressive therapies. All of them may present musculoskeletal pathology or associated neuropathies. In relation to neoplastic causes, single cavitated lung lesions most often correspond to bronchogenic carcinoma, which cavitates in 10-15% of cases, which is usually associated with a worse prognosis. Of the different histological types, squamous cell carcinoma is the most frequently cavitated. It is usually a lesion of variable size, spiculated, thick-walled (> 4mm) and irregular, associated with soft tissue mass and other findings such as lymphadenopathy, invasion of mediastinal structures and chest wall infiltration. Some Kaposi's lymphomas and sarcomas may also present with cavitated lesions, especially in the HIV-infected population, whose lesions are usually small in number and preferentially located in the lower lobes. Pulmonary metastases are nodules of variable size, but generally larger than one centimetre, multiple and tend to cavitate less than primary neoplasms (less than 4%) and generally appear in the lung and subpleural bases, as lesions with irregular borders. As for the possible neoplastic aetiology of our patient's low back pain: the primary tumours that most frequently metastasise to the bone are breast, prostate, lung, thyroid, kidney and colon. As well as myeloma and lymphoma. Myeloma is the most common primary bone tumour. It usually presents lytic rather than sclerotic lesions, well defined and respecting pedicles, the diagnosis is made by proteinogram and bone marrow aspirate. Pulmonary involvement is rare.

Evolution
Among the complementary tests requested, the following serology results were obtained: past infection by CMV, Epstein-Barr, toxoplasma, Parvovirus B19, Mycoplasma and hepatitis B. Chlamydia pneumoniae, Brucella, Yersinia, Salmonella, Legionella, Ricketsia, Borrelia, Coxiella, lues, HAV, HCV and HIV negative Despite analgesic treatment, the lumbar pain persisted, so an MRI of the spine was performed, showing signs of generalised spondylosis with osteophytic formations of anterior predominance. Degenerative disc disease. In the L2-L3 and L4-L5 disc interspaces there were discrete central protrusions with no repercussions on thecal sac or nerve roots. In order to rule out other causes of low back pain, a thoracic and abdomen-pelvis computed tomography (CT) scan with intravenous contrast showed partial resolution of the bilateral pulmonary parenchymal condensations with transformation of some of them into cystic cavities. There was also a hypodense lesion with peripheral enhancement in the left psoas measuring 3 x 1.3 cm suggestive of abscess. Several hepatic lesions of different sizes as catchers with cyst criteria. No significant adenopathies. CT scan of the abdomen w/c: hypodense lesion with peripheral enhancement in the left psoas measuring 3 x 1.3 cm suggestive of abscess. Given the lack of improvement in lumbar pain, a skeletal scan and SPECT-CT with technetium were performed with findings suggestive of L2-L3 spondylodiscitis and arthritis of the right shoulder, which was subsequently confirmed with Gadolinium citrate. Skeletal GA with Tc99 Diphosphate and Ga67 citrate: findings suggestive of L2-L3 spondylodiscitis and right shoulder arthritis. During his admission, the patient began to expectorate and sputum samples were collected. Serial smears were negative and the culture was positive for methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA), which allowed antibiotic treatment to be started with cloxacillin 2 grams every 6 hours. Subsequently, methicillin-resistant Enterococcus faecillinus was isolated in urine, so cloxacillin was withdrawn and vancomycin was started.
An echocardiogram was performed with no alterations and no evidence of vegetations. A CT-guided vertebral biopsy was also requested to take samples for cultures, the results of which (bacterial culture, fungal culture and mycobacterial culture) were negative. The pathological anatomy of the intervertebral disc (puncture-biopsy) showed fibrocartilaginous tissue with focal and discrete acute non-specific inflammation and granulation tissue.

Parenteral antibiotic treatment was maintained, with cloxacillin initially and vancomycin later, completing five weeks and then levofloxacin and oral rifampicin for six more weeks, normalising the inflammatory parameters as well as the resolution of both the pneumonic process and the psoas abscess, with residual lesion image persisting at the L2-L3 level. He was referred for follow-up to the Traumatology Spine Unit.

Final diagnosis
Necrotising pneumonia due to SAMS. Spondylodiscitis L2-L3. Psoas abscess. Nosocomial urinary tract infection due to E. faecium.
