Male patient, 48 years old, single, with no drug allergies or personal history of interest. He was a two-pack-a-day smoker and an occasional drinker. He did not receive medical treatment at home. He came to the emergency department for the appearance of nodular dermal lesions together with a slightly pruritic maculopapular rash affecting the chest, back, genital region, upper and lower limbs, of about ten days' evolution. It was associated with fever up to 38oC, chills, nausea, vomiting and anorexia. The patient denied intestinal symptoms, urinary symptoms or macroscopic urine alterations. He reported no contact with animals and no consumption of water or unprocessed food. The patient had not travelled abroad and had no recollection of arthropod bites. He reported frequent risky heterosexual intercourse.
Physical examination revealed maculopapular lesions with slight peripheral desquamation, symmetrical, located mainly on the chest, back, upper and lower limbs; and isolated skin nodules on the chest and back, without palmo-plantar involvement. He also showed some preputial genital lesions similar to those described, without affecting the glans penis. No chancroid was observed. The otorhinolaryngological examination showed a septic mouth, with an isolated whitish lesion on the left jugal mucosa, close to the labial commissure, as well as a fusiform tumour at the level of the hard palatine velum, of medial location. Cardiac and pulmonary auscultation and abdominal examination were unremarkable.
Complementary tests performed in the emergency department showed the following results: haemoglobin 15.7 g/dl; 14,610 leukocytes/mm3 with neutrophilia; monocytosis of 1,450 cells/mm3; 356. 000 platelets/mm3; INR of 0.99; normal renal function with creatinine of 0.80 mg/dL; altered liver profile, with total bilirubin of 2.30 mg/dL; direct bilirubin of 1.40 mg/dL; GOT 104 U/L; GPT 249 U/L; GGT 642 U/L; alkaline phosphatase 998 U/L; sodium 132 mEq/L; potassium 4.6 mEq/L; C-reactive protein (CRP) 36.85 mg/L; and normal venous blood gases and urine system.
Abdominal ultrasound showed a slightly enlarged liver with no other alterations. Blood cultures, urine culture and serology for Treponema pallidum, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, varicella-zoster virus, HIV, HAV, HBV, HCV and herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 were performed.

Differential diagnosis
Given the clinical features and the results of the complementary tests performed, several entities may be responsible for the patient's clinical picture:
Sarcoidosis. This is a possibility, as the patient presented some characteristics that may appear in this disease, such as papules, plaques, nodules, fever, anorexia, slight hepatomegaly and cholestasis. However, the absence of arthralgias, erythema nodosum, lupus pernio, ocular involvement, pulmonary pathology, peripheral adenopathies, nervous system or cardiac involvement, and hypercalcaemia does not support this diagnosis. Systemic lupus erythematosus. It is considered in the presence of fever and skin lesions. In subacute cutaneous lupus of the papulo-squamous or psoriasiform type, there are erythematous, slightly scaly papules with a symmetrical distribution and a tendency to confluence, mainly affecting the shoulders, the extensor surface of the arms, the neckline region and the dorsal thorax, lesions and locations that were evident in our patient. Therefore, we cannot rule out this disease, although it is true that we were dealing with a male and he did not present photosensitivity, malar rash, oral ulcers, polyarthralgias, arthritis, serositis, renal, neurological or haematological involvement, alterations which, if present, would make this possibility more likely.
Although unlikely, cutaneous lymphoma would fall within the differential diagnosis. Our patient had papulonodular dermal lesions that can appear in different haematological neoplasms. Disseminated gonococcal infection would be unlikely as this was a male patient with no history of urethritis, or concurrent arthritis, petechiae or vesiculopustules. Furthermore, dermal lesions in disseminated gonococcal infection usually self-limit within a few days, whereas in our case the patient reported having had the rash for about two weeks.
A cutaneous infection by atypical mycobacteria, especially Mycobacterium marinum and Mycobacterium chelonae, which can cause nodular lesions, should be ruled out. This diagnosis is unlikely, as they usually have a sporotrichoid distribution on a limb from a point of inoculation. However, they should be taken into account, and anamnesis directed towards risk factors, such as contact with possibly contaminated water, should be performed. Alterations in liver biochemistry could lead us to suspect acute hepatitis. However, the transaminases were not excessively elevated, and the skin lesions were not characteristic of this clinical picture. Sweet's syndrome should be included among the possible diagnoses, as it presents with papuloerythematous lesions, mainly on the arms, trunk and head, associated with neutrophilia. Although our patient had neutrophilia, it is a rare disease, whose lesions are usually confined to a limited anatomical area, and it is much more common in women.
Other diagnostic possibilities could be deep fungal infections, leprosy, leishmaniasis, cutaneous tuberculosis, Kaposi's sarcoma or drug eruptions, although several of these, in their typical forms, could be ruled out by simple inspection.
Secondary syphilis, known as "the great simulator", can give any type of dermal symptoms. Although papulonodular syphilis is rare, it is a possibility to consider in this case. Moreover, in the phase of treponemal dissemination, any organ can be affected and, in particular, there is the possibility of syphilitic hepatitis, with elevation mainly of alkaline phosphatase, as was the case in our patient. Constitutional symptoms such as fever, anorexia and malaise are also present in secondary syphilis. This stage of syphilis usually develops between the fourth and tenth week after the onset of the chancre. However, up to 40% of patients may report no previous inoculation lesions, as in our case.

Evolution
During his admission the patient remained afebrile. The dermal lesions did not vary in size, morphology or location. An evaluation was carried out by Otorhinolaryngology, which, after examination of the tumour on the soft palate, concluded that it was a palatine torus. She was treated with nystatin with improvement of the whitish lesion of the left jugal mucosa present on admission. A chest X-ray was requested and found to be normal, with no hilar adenopathy or pulmonary interstitial infiltrate that could suggest sarcoidosis. A magnetic resonance cholangiography was also performed, with no evidence of bile duct dilatation or other hepatobiliary or pancreatic pathologies.
A second analysis showed improvement in most parameters: 11,500 leukocytes/mm3 with 6,290 neutrophils/mm3; total bilirubin 1.3 mg/dL; direct bilirubin 0.7 mg/dL; GOT 65 U/L; GPT 147 U/L; GGT 469 U/L; alkaline phosphatase 778 U/L; CRP 26 mg/L. Blood and urine cultures were negative. Serological studies showed positive IgG for cytomegalovirus, negative IgM for Epstein-Barr virus, positive IgG for varicella-zoster virus, negative HIV serology, positive IgG for HAV, negative serology for HBV and HCV, positive IgM and IgG for herpes simplex virus types I and II, and positive serology for lupus with positive non-treponemal antibodies (1/32) and positive T. pallidum antibodies (IgM and IgG).
After obtaining a positive serology for syphilis (secondary syphilis), antibiotic treatment was administered with a single dose of benzylpenicillin (2,400,000 Ul intramuscularly) and, due to the patient's good general condition, discharge and follow-up in outpatient clinics was decided. A few hours after the injection, the patient developed fever and arthralgias lasting several hours (Jarisch-Herxheimer phenomenon). After two weeks, the skin lesions had completely resolved and the blood tests had normalised. Subsequent visits showed a more than fourfold decrease in non-treponemal antibody titres. Therefore, given the clinical picture, the complementary tests and the effectiveness of the treatment, we can conclude that the patient had secondary papulonodular syphilis.

Final diagnosis
Secondary papulonodular syphilis with hepatic involvement.
