The patient is a 69-year-old woman, with no pharmacological allergies or toxic habits. Personal history: hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus and dyslipidaemia. She has had a double mechanical prosthesis since 2003 due to mitroaortic valve disease of rheumatic origin and chronic liver disease of probable multifactorial origin (heart failure, stasis liver). Diagnosed with stage 3 chronic kidney disease (ClCr according to MDRD-4: 43.1 ml/min/1.73 m2).
She was admitted for a week of non-productive cough and progressive increase in dyspnoea on exertion. She was initially assessed by her primary care physician, who started a course of antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin. Given the clinical worsening of the respiratory symptoms and the appearance of a fever of 39oC with shivering, she consulted the emergency department of our hospital. The patient did not report increased abdominal perimeter or increased oedema in the lower limbs. No micturition syndrome. No abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting, she only reported softer than usual stools, not diarrhoea, which she related to antibiotic treatment. No other signs or symptoms in the anamnesis by apparatus. Vital signs were: BP: 110/60 mmHg. 85 bpm. 20 rpm. O2 saturation 96% room air. Febrile (axillary temperature 38.2oC). On inspection she was in good general condition, conscious and oriented. Well hydrated and perfused. Eupneic at rest. No jugular ingurgitation. Absence of palpable adenopathies.
On cardiorespiratory auscultation the cardiac tones were rhythmic with metallic click and pansystolic murmur III/VI. Vesicular murmur was preserved with scattered rhonchi and minimal bibasal crackles. The abdomen was soft, depressible and there was a 4-cm, non-painful hepatomegaly with normal peristalsis. At the level of the lower extremities there was slight malleolar oedema.
The blood test carried out in the ED showed ions within normal limits and a discrete normocytic normochromic anaemia with haemoglobin (Hb) of 10.8 g/dl, no leukocytosis and normal platelets. The coagulation study was normal. Basic biochemistry showed impaired renal function (Cr 1.85 mg/dl, urea 128 mg/dl) with normal ions. Lipid, liver and thyroid profiles were normal. Acute phase reactants were slightly elevated with ESR of 24 mm/h and CRP of 29.6 mg/l. The proteinogram showed hypoproteinaemia, hypoalbuminaemia and a profile compatible with moderate inflammatory syndrome. Infectious serology (HBV, HCV and HIV) was negative. The electrocardiogram showed no relevant alterations. Chest X-ray showed marked global cardiomegaly with pulmonary parenchyma and no significant radiological findings.
In a batch of two blood cultures taken in the emergency department, Salmonella serogroup B was isolated (in all bottles). Urine and stool cultures were negative. In view of these findings, and given that the patient had no previous abdominal symptoms, an investigation was initiated to look for a source responsible for the bacteraemia. Among the initial studies, an ultrasound scan of the abdomen was performed, which ruled out cholecystitis and showed no other significant alterations.
Given the persistence of fever, as this was a patient with a history of mitroaortic valve disease, a transthoracic echocardiography was requested and subsequently a transesophageal echocardiography was performed, which showed no alterations compatible with prosthetic endocarditis. Likewise, a chest and abdominal CT angiography showed slight calcified atheromatosis of the thoracic and abdominal aorta with no evidence of aneurysms or data suggestive of endovascular infection.
On the basis of the antibiogram, empirical antibiotic treatment given in the emergency department (ceftriaxone 2 g iv/24 hours) was downgraded to ciprofloxacin 500 mg every 12 h orally and he completed 10 days of antibiotic treatment, with good clinical evolution, remaining afebrile, and control blood cultures were negative. In the absence of findings in the imaging tests performed, it was decided to discharge her home. Two weeks later, the patient began to experience dorsal pain radiating to the central thoracic region of an oppressive nature, which progressively increased, accompanied by increasing dyspnoea, and for which she consulted the emergency department. He had not presented fever or other accompanying symptoms. The electrocardiogram showed no evidence of acute ischaemia. Laboratory tests performed in the ED showed mobilisation of markers of myocardial damage with peak ultrasensitive Troponin T 638 pg/dl, normal creatine phosphate kinase (CPK) and negative D-dimer, and it was decided to admit the patient to the ward for further investigation.

Differential diagnosis
The patient had recently been admitted for bacteraemia due to Salmonella sp with no clear focus in the study performed, and was readmitted for chest pain and dyspnoea. It is known that Salmonella bacteraemia can appear in the context of gastroenteritis or manifest as fever with no apparent focus. It can persist and cause focal complications such as osteoarticular infections, CNS involvement, endocarditis and endovascular infection.
In our case, no persistent bacteraemia was found, as the control blood cultures were negative before discharge and on readmission. In this patient, the first thing to rule out, despite the fact that the electrocardiogram was normal, is an acute coronary syndrome. In favour of this, it should be noted that she presents cardiovascular risk factors, compatible clinical symptoms and mobilisation of markers of myocardial damage, so this entity cannot be ruled out until a coronary angiography is performed. Other causes of ischaemic pain not associated with coronary arteriosclerosis should also be considered: coronary embolism, coronary spasm, coronary arteritis (luetic or associated with other systemic diseases) and congenital anomalies of the coronary arteries, among others.
There are other cardiovascular diseases that can cause chest pain. In pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE), the pain is usually pleuritic in nature and may be associated with haemoptysis, tachypnoea, tachycardia, hypoxaemia and hypocapnia, which our patient did not present. In addition, the D-dimer performed in the ED was negative and the patient had no other risk factors for the development of PTE.
Aortic dissection is another entity to be considered in the differential diagnosis. In this case, chest pain is usually very intense from the onset, radiating to the back and appearing abruptly. It may be associated with pulse deficit, aortic insufficiency and acute myocardial infarction, among others. Our patient's age and arterial hypertension (which is present in up to 80% of cases) are in favour, while the clinical presentation is against. Finally, consider the possibility of complications or focal infections secondary to Salmonella sp. bacteraemia. In this regard, we can point to osteoarticular infections such as infectious spondylodiscitis. It usually presents as dorsal or lumbar pain with an inflammatory profile and in some cases, chest pain may be the form of presentation. The clinical presentation is usually very non-specific, which leads to a delay in diagnosis. In our case, we could not rule out this possibility until an imaging test was performed. On the other hand, endovascular infections should be pointed out, as Salmonella bacteraemia has been classically related to endovascular colonisation and may be present in up to 10% of patients with bacteraemia. In our case, given that this is a patient with a mechanical prosthesis due to mitroaortic valve disease and who has presented recent bacteraemia due to Salmonella, endovascular infection would be our main clinical suspicion if the coronary angiography was normal, despite the fact that it had been ruled out in the previous admission.

Evolution
In the ED, blood cultures were taken without fever, which were negative, and antibiotic treatment with ceftriaxone 2 g iv was started and maintained on the ward as it was considered that the duration of antibiotic treatment for Salmonella bacteraemia was short. Initially, the possibility of osteoarticular infection was raised in relation to recent bacteraemia. A CT scan of the dorsal-lumbar spine was requested, which showed no evidence of spondylodiscitis or the presence of collections. New blood cultures were requested on the ward without fever, which were also negative.
Given the clinical manifestations of chest pain and the mobilisation of markers of myocardial damage, a coronary angiography was performed, which revealed a severe lesion along the entire proximal segment of the right coronary artery, which appeared to be secondary to extrinsic compression. Aortography showed a giant pseudoaneurysm at the level of the right coronary sinus, which was responsible for the compression of the right coronary artery, as well as severe aortic insufficiency due to periprosthetic dysfunction. Echocardiography showed findings compatible with aortic prosthetic endocarditis, with severe aortic insufficiency and a large pseudoaneurysm in the anterior region of the proximal ascending aorta. In our patient, the initial process was probably prosthetic dehiscence, as the metallic prosthesis was well positioned and with an adequate opening, with formation of a periprosthetic abscess, subsequent extension or fistulisation to the thoracic aorta and formation of a pseudoaneurysm. To complete the study and assess the extension, a chest CT angiography was requested, which confirmed the presence of a large pseudoaneurysm dependent on the aortic root (5.4 x 5.8 x 5.9 cm) between the ascending aorta and the trunk of the pulmonary artery compressing the RCA and showing cranial wall enhancement that could indicate an infectious aetiology.
In view of these findings, the cardiovascular surgery department of our referral hospital was contacted and, after assessing the case, rejected the intervention due to the high surgical risk of the patient. Subsequently, the patient evolved unfavourably, maintaining heart failure refractory to treatment and finally died.

Final diagnosis
Bacteraemia due to Salmonella serogroup B complicated by giant pseudoaneurysm of the aortic root causing compression of the right coronary artery, probably related to Salmonella endarteritis.
Aortic prosthetic endocarditis with periaortic abscess and severe aortic insufficiency.
