The patient, a 23 year old male, HIV seropositive, acquired by vertical transmission, was admitted on 12/06/2010, with headache of one week's evolution. He presented on computed tomography (CT) of the brain (without contrast) a hypodense image in the right frontal lobe and a left paraventricular image. Empirical treatment for toxoplasmosis was started.

He had a history of Isospora belli diarrhoea and negative serology for syphilis, toxoplasmosis, Chagas disease and primary hepatotropic viruses.

He had stopped antiretroviral treatment (ART) 2 years earlier, after completing multiple regimens with non-adherence.

He is not an iv drug user and lives in a house made of construction material with complete toilets. He travelled to the endemic area at 18 years of age.

Abdominal ultrasound revealed hepatosplenomegaly, left kidney with increased medullary echogenicity, isoechoic retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy and mild pericardial effusion. Fundus examination was normal and CD4+ T-cell count was 198 cells/mm3. Chest X-ray was normal.

He presented with seizures, sensory impairment, headache and paraesthesia in the right upper limb, which led to a lumbar puncture, from which rock crystal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was obtained, with 47 g/dl glucose, 0.5 g/dl protein and 4 cells/mm3. Parasitological study revealed motile (flagellated) elements micromorphologically compatible with T. cruzi trypomastigotes.

Serology for Chagas disease was negative by particle agglutination (PA), indirect haemagglutination (HAI) and enzyme immunoassay (ELISA). Indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) was positive with a titre of 1/64 (cut-off value 1/32), and then negative in 3 subsequent successive determinations, performed in the same laboratory.

Strout's technique was positive.

Treatment was started with Beznidazole (vo), which was discontinued on the 5th day due to the appearance of a severe pruritic skin rash and was replaced by Nifurtimox (vo), while treatment for toxoplasmosis was discontinued.

On the 5th day he presented fever and sinus tachycardia with transient haemodynamic decompensation. The echocardiogram showed a slight increase in the size of the left ventricle, with preserved systolic function, and mild concentric hypertrophy and pericardial effusion, configuring a restrictive pattern.

At 14 days he presented with symptoms of heart failure and chest X-ray revealed acute myocardial dilatation with a pattern of pulmonary flow redistribution. Electrocardiogram showed 1st degree A-V block and a new echocardiogram showed decreased systolic function and acute myocardial dilatation with signs of failure.

He was treated with enalapril, spironolactone, furosemide and corticosteroids as myocardial anti-inflammatory drugs, with which he improved.

After 26 days of hospitalisation, he started treatment with vancomycin for a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection linked to a catheter. ART was restarted with Zidovudine, Lamivudine, Saquinavir and Ritonavir.

On ECG the A-V block remitted. The patient presented with nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, increased blood urea and potassium. Vancomycin, ART and diuretics were discontinued and daptomycin was continued. After 55 days of hospitalisation he was discharged, continuing treatment with Nifurtimox. 
