This is a 59-year-old man with the only known history of bicuspid aortic valve with fusion of the left and right coronary leaflets causing moderate-severe aortic insufficiency (last echocardiography 6 months before the current episode). He has regular check-ups by Cardiology and has no associated dyspnoea, nor does he take any medication on a regular basis. The patient lives in a rural area and works in construction. He regularly goes out cycling in the countryside, having recently cycled the Camino de Santiago, and has contact with some animals, mainly dogs, goats and cows, although not in close contact. She has no pets and has not recently travelled abroad.
She consulted for symptoms of two months' evolution consisting of profuse sweating and non-thermometric dysthermic sensation, generalised asthenia and lumbar pain. For this reason she went to the emergency department for assessment, where a Rose Bengal test was requested, which was positive, and treatment was started with doxycycline 100mg/12h and rifampicin 900mg/24h, and she was subsequently referred to the outpatient Infectious Diseases department for assessment. Although the clinical manifestations were initially compatible, although doubtful due to the absence of direct contact with livestock, and in view of the infrequency of this entity in our environment in recent years, Rose Bengal, Brucella spp serology and blood culture were performed again, and a sample was sent to Hospital Carlos III (Madrid) with the intention of confirming or ruling out the presumptive diagnosis of brucellosis.

In the anamnesis and examination by organs and apparatus, there were no notable findings except for a systolic murmur predominantly aortic, with no stigmata suggestive of endocarditis. Given that the patient reported clinical improvement after the treatment given in the emergency department, it was decided to keep him waiting for the results, which were finally negative. The patient discontinued treatment due to gastrointestinal intolerance before the next visit to the clinic. Likewise, due to the clinical manifestations of dorsolumbar pain, and given the initial suspicion of brucellosis, it was decided to perform magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which also found no signs of spondylodiscitis due to Brucella spp. During the follow-up visit, after discontinuation of the aforementioned antibiotic treatment, the patient again presented clinical manifestations, with a daily fever of up to 38. 5oC of bacteremic characteristics, with associated general malaise, profuse sweating and asthenia, without any specific organ or apparatus focality, for which reason it was finally decided to admit him to hospital to obtain blood cultures and complete the study, given the persistence of fever and poor general condition.

Differential diagnosis
This is a patient with fever of intermediate duration (IDF), or even of prolonged duration, if we count the period prior to antibiotic treatment received, without a clear focus, so we will focus the differential diagnosis around IDF, even knowing that in up to 20% of cases, the aetiology remains unknown. Based on the patient's epidemiological context and personal history, the causes to be taken into account are as follows:

1. Bacterial infections: To highlight rickettsiosis as responsible for typhoid fevers and botonous fever (exanthematous rickettsiosis is more frequent in the countries of the Mediterranean basin), Coxiella burnetti as causative agent of Q fever, Brucella melitensis as responsible for human brucellosis; enteric or typhoid fever caused by Salmonella typhy and paratyphi, Bartonella spp in cat scratch disease and bacillary angiomatosis, human ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis, and, of course, tuberculosis.

2. Viral infections: caused by CMV, Epstein-Barr virus, parvovirus B19, HSV 6,7 and 8, HIV.

3. Protozoal infections: Toxoplasmosis stands out.

4. Localised infections: intra-abdominal abscesses, infective endocarditis.

5. Autoimmune diseases: Adult Still's disease, mainly due to its usual clinical presentation in the form of fever.

6. Neoplasms: renal cell carcinoma and lymphoma may present relatively frequently as fever without focus.

7. Miscellaneous: Subacute thyroiditis.

Evolution
During hospital admission, several complementary tests were requested, which are detailed below. Serology for Brucella spp: negative for Ig M and Ig G; serology for Coxiella spp, Rickettsia spp, syphilis, hepatitis A, B, C virus and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV): negative. IgG for CMV and EBV positive, Ig M negative. Laboratory tests showed elevated acute phase reactants including C-reactive protein (75 mg/L), procalcitonin (0.38 ng/mL), ferritin (1473 ng/mL), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (69 mm/h) and rheumatoid factor (18.6 IU/mL). The autoimmunity study (including ANAs, ENAs, immunoglobulins and lymphocyte subpopulations) and IGRA were negative. In terms of imaging tests, a thoraco-abdominal-pelvic computed tomography (CT) scan was performed to rule out localised infections (intra-abdominal abscesses) or occult neoplasms (mainly lymphoma or renal cell carcinoma). Blood cultures were also taken and were positive for erythromycin-resistant Streptococcus sanguinis (viridans group) with a penicillin MIC of 0.03 mcg/ml in 6 serial blood cultures on 3 different days.
Given these initial analytical results, the majority of viral or bacterial infectious aetiologies (Coxiella ssp, Rickettsia ssp, HIV, syphilis, Hepatitis A, B and C, CMV, EBV) were reasonably ruled out. The initial diagnosis of brucellosis was dismissed after a second negative Rose Bengal, three negative serological series at different times, and a negative MRI for spondylodiscitis. Likewise, the negative autoimmunity study allowed us to reject an autoimmune aetiology (mainly adult Still's disease, as it did not meet the prescriptive diagnostic criteria of Cush or Yamaguchi, such as evanescent rash or lymphadenopathy); and the IGRA test, added to the previous results and a normal chest X-ray, made tuberculosis unlikely. Finally, the thyroid function test was normal, ruling out subacute thyroiditis.
Given the high suspicion of infective endocarditis due to positive repeat blood cultures with a typical microorganism isolated in a patient with previous valve disease, treatment was started with ceftriaxone 2 grams every 24 hours and gentamicin adjusted to the patient's weight, and a transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) was requested, which showed an aortic valve with dysplastic leaflets, with preserved opening and severe prolapse of the right leaflet causing eccentric insufficiency directed to the anterior mitral leaflet, which was severe overall (a previous echography months earlier had shown moderate insufficiency), with no signs of endocarditis. In view of these findings, transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was performed, which showed no new findings suggestive of endocarditis.
In addition to the negative TTE and TEE, a CT scan was performed, which showed no neoplasms or pathological lymphadenopathies, and no abscesses were observed in any location. The only finding was the presence of several splenic infarctions. At this point, the initial suspicion of endocarditis became even more important as a septic embolic phenomenon had occurred (we would add 1 major and 3 minor criteria) (Figure 1), and it was decided to schedule a second TEE within a week of the previous one, as well as a PET-CT scan, which reported relatively homogeneous uptake of non-specific myocardium. Finally, a second TEE was performed, which showed a vegetation with a maximum size of 7-8 mm compatible with subacute infective endocarditis on a native bicuspid aortic valve.


Final diagnosis
Aortic endocarditis due to S. sanguinis on a bicuspid valve.
