A 75-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital with ataxia and cognitive alterations of 2 months' duration, accompanied by epileptic seizures in the last 24 hours. Her relatives denied fever or headache. His personal history included well-controlled hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidaemia and hypothyroidism. His usual treatment included levothyroxine 50 mcg, enalapril 20 mg, simvastatin 20 mg and metformin 2 g per day. Physical examination revealed stupor, afebrile and normotensive with a Glasgow Glasgow score of 11 (6-3-2), generalised hypertonia, myoclonic movements and nystagmus. Reflexes were present and she had left Babinsky. There were no meningeal signs. Cardiorespiratory auscultation and the rest of the examination revealed no significant findings. Blood tests showed a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Liver, renal and thyroid function, as well as ionogram, proteinogram, vitamin B and folic acid levels, RPR and venous blood gases were also normal. The levels of tumour markers (alpha fetoprotein carcinoembryonic antigen CAs 19.9, 125, 15.3 and neurospecific enolase) calcitonin and beta-HCG were not significant. Autoimmune studies (rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antigens, anti PR3, anti MPO, anti Ro and anti La, antimicrosomal, anticardiolipin and antiperoxidase were normal as well as ACE, cryoglobulin and cryoagglutinin levels. Serology for HIV, HBV, HCV, Rickettsia, Borrelia, Mycoplasma, Coxiella, Brucella, Adenovirus, Echovirus and HSV type II were negative. Ig G for HSV type I was positive (1/160), but the Ig M titre was not significant. Thoracoabdominal and cranial computed tomography (CT) were normal, as well as brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with vascular sequences. EEG showed diffuse slowing with alternating theta-delta waves without specific focality or irritative paroxysms. CSF analysis showed hyperproteinaemia of 57.9 mg/dL with 2 leukocytes per field and 620 red blood cells per mm3. Glucose, ADA, VDRL, cultures, Ziehl-Neelsen and pneumococcal antigens were irrelevant. Cytology also showed no abnormalities. The study was extended by requesting levels of delta aminolevulinic acid, porphobilinogen, lead and arsenic in 24 h urine, Legionella antigenuria, cortisol, ceruloplasmin and paraneoplastic encephalitis antibodies (anti-Hu, anti amphiphysin and anti Ma-2) with negative results. A second lumbar puncture showed identical biochemical and microbiological parameters and negative ANAs, Ig G against Borrelia, immunoglobulin and band quantification and PCR for JC virus and Tropherima Whipplei. Both PCR for HSV type I and Harrington's test (determination of prion protein 14-3-3 by immunoblot and colorimetry) were positive. Antiviral treatment with acyclovir was started and replaced by ganciclovir due to transient acute tubular necrosis. After 3 weeks of treatment there was no clinical response, and stupor persisted, with generalised pyramidalism, nystagmus and myoclonias. A second brain MRI, performed 10 weeks after the onset of symptoms, was normal again. A CSF codon 129 polymorphism result was received, showing homozygosity for the methionine gene (129 M/M), information compatible with sporadic variant CJD. A brain biopsy confirmed neuronal loss and spongiform degeneration with vacuolisation and multiple PrP deposits on immunohistochemistry. No signs of herpetic encephalitis were observed and HSV-I PCR on brain biopsy was negative. The patient died 3 months after the onset of symptomatology. Autopsy was refused.
