PERSONAL HISTORY:
32-year-old patient, with no known drug allergies or toxic habits. Psychologist by profession. No childhood history of interest. FUR 2 weeks ago, no history of gynaecological or previous miscarriages. Holocranial headaches usually of tension profile, although she has had a previous episode of migraine without aura which was studied in the neurology department. Acrocyanosis after exposure to cold temperatures for years. No raynaud's. She has not travelled outside Spain. She stopped hormone treatment (vaginal ring) approximately 3 months ago. She takes regular laxative treatment with plantain ovata.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
She presents with a sudden onset of paraesthesia in the upper limb of three days' evolution, associated with oedema of the same limb in the last 48 hours. She denies loss of vision and eye pain with extreme movements. She denies similar previous episodes of loss of sensation in other limbs. She denies having lifted weights or performing repetitive movements with the affected limb. No autoimmune or systemic symptoms. No febrile syndrome or weight loss. No history of TTEV. 

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
BEG, well hydrated and perfused. No jugular engorgement. Tolerates decubitus and conversation. MMSS: slight oedema in left upper limb with +/++++ fovea, predominantly distal, slight increase in diameter compared to the contralateral limb, well perfused limb with radial pulse present. Proximal superficial venous network of the left limb visible and asymmetrical compared to the contralateral limb. Livido reticularis in both upper limbs. RCA: rhythmic tones, without murmurs, friction sounds or extratonos. CVM preserved without pathological noises. Abdomen: nondescript. MMII: no oedema or signs of DVT. Neurological examination: Hypoaesthesia of predominance in the hand and up to the middle third of the left humerus, the rest being normal. Adson and Wright manoeuvre negative. No Hoffmann's sign. Lhermitte negative.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS:
Normal haemocytometry, normal general biochemistry including ferritin and PCR. Vitamin B12 and folic acid normal. Normal haemostasis except for DD 5500. Normal RF, GI and complement. LUES, HIV, HBV and HCV negative. ANA, ANCA, ACA and AL negative. Chest X-ray without alterations. Doppler ultrasound of MSI: normal. Axillary CT angiography: no obstructive data at arteriovenous level. Cranial and cervical MRI with and without contrast normal.

EVOLUTION: During her admission she was asymptomatic at times, with periods of paresthesia and minimal self-limited MSI oedema, mainly associated with movements. A complementary test was performed which led us to the diagnosis we suspected.
