A 55-year-old man with a history of ischaemic heart disease attended the emergency department for fever of 6 months of intermittent evolution, accompanied by chills, sweating, asthenia and anorexia. On examination he presented a temperature of 39oC, septic mouth and rhythmic cardiac auscultation at 90 bpm with a multifocal systolic murmur III/VI. Laboratory tests showed haemoglobin 12.5 g/dL, haematocrit 37%, MCV 91 fL, white and platelet series normal, and CRP 9.0 mg/dL. Chest X-ray was normal. Serial blood cultures were taken and the patient was admitted. A transesophageal echocardiogram showed two warts in the anteroseptal mitral leaflet with mild mitral insufficiency. Empirical antibiotic treatment for infective endocarditis was started with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid (2 g/4 h, iv) and gentamicin (80 mg/8 h, iv). Seven days after admission, bacterial growth was detected in 3 of the 4 blood culture bottles. No microorganisms were observed in the direct Gram stain. At 48 hours, in the subculture performed on chocolate agar in a CO2 atmosphere, greyish-coloured punctate colonies grew, which corresponded to gram-negative coccobacilli in the Gram stain. Biochemical tests were as follows: catalase positive, oxidase negative, urea negative, indolnegative and non-fermenting of glucose, galactose and lactose. The micro-organism did not grow in aerobic atmosphere at 37oC or on EMB agar, but did grow on Brucella enanaerobiosis agar. A subculture was performed in thioglycollate broth and after 7 days of incubation, growth was observed in the form of clumps adhering to the wall of the tube and then becoming diffuse throughout the broth. Serological tests for Brucella were negative. Due to the microbiological results obtained and the appearance of new febrile episodes, it was decided to change the antibiotic treatment to ceftriaxone (2g/24 h, iv). The original culture was incubated for a prolonged period of time in a CO2 atmosphere and after 25 days rough colonies with a stellate appearance in the centre were observed by low magnification light microscopy. The sensitivity study was performed by the disc-plate method after prolonged incubation, and was sensitive to penicillin, cephalosporins, aminoglycosides, quinolones, cotrimoxazole, rifampicin and tetracycline, and resistant to glycopeptides and clindamycin, with negative beta-lactamase determination. The patient's clinical evolution was satisfactory, with no complications. He was discharged and continued with outpatient antibiotic treatment, completing 5 weeks of treatment with ceftriaxone.

The existence of endocarditis with a subacute course and the late growth of gram-negative microorganisms in the blood culture should lead us to suspect the participation of microorganisms belonging to the HACEK group, which includes bacteria that are difficult to grow and have special nutritional and incubation requirements. This group includes the following microorganisms: Haemophilus (H. aphrophilus, H.paraphrophilus, etc.), Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, Cardiobacterium hominis, Eikenella corrodens and Kingella kingae. The common characteristics of all of them are the following: they are part of the normal flora of the oropharyngeal cavity and upper respiratory tract, they are small gram-negative coccobacilli, they are demanding microorganisms, very slow growing, they require prolonged incubation in CO2 atmosphere and produce similar clinical pictures of insidious course, endocarditis being the most frequent pathology.

According to the microbiological results, A. actinomycetemcomitans was identified as the causative organism of this infection. It is a gram-negative, capnophilic, facultative anaerobic, very slow-growing coccobacillus, which is part of the normal bacterial flora of the oral cavity. It requires blood-enriched culture media and does not grow on selective media such as MacConkey agar or EMB. 

Endocarditis due to A. actinomycetemcomitans is very rare on both native and prosthetic valves, with 102 cases reported in the literature so far. It is the microorganism of the HACEK group that most frequently causes endocarditis, especially in patients with underlying cardiac pathologies. The entry point is usually an oropharyngeal infection, but it can also be secondary to instrumentation in the oral cavity. On other occasions, as in our case, the origin is related to a septic mouth with teeth in poor condition.

A. actinomycetemcomitans is sensitive to cephalosporins, aztreonam, rifampicin, aminoglycosides, aminoglycosides, cotrimoxazole, tetracycline, chloramphenicol and quinolones, with variable sensitivity to penicillin. In endocarditis caused by this microorganism, the most commonly used treatment regimen has been the combination of penicillin or ampicillin with an intravenous aminoglycoside, although penicillinase-producing strains have been described. For this reason, third-generation cephalosporins, associated with either rifampicin or an aminoglycoside, are an option to consider due to their excellent in vitro activity. The recommended duration of treatment is 4 weeks in endocarditis on native valves and 6 weeks when prosthetic valves are affected. The use of fluoroquinolones, as well as cotrimoxazole or aztreonam, should be considered as an alternative in patients who are intolerant or allergic to beta-lactams, given their high sensitivity rates and the in vitro demonstration of synergy with rifampicin. Isolated cases of complete cure have been reported after treatment with oral ciprofloxacin, alone or in association with rifampicin or doxycycline, for a longer period of time than with parenteral treatments (8 weeks). These data suggest that oral fluoroquinolones may be a valid option, as monotherapy or in combination with other antimicrobials, in episodes of A. actinomycetemcomitans endocarditis without serious complications. Valve replacement is necessary in 24% of cases.

