A 48-year-old patient, resident of Zamora, with a history of monocytic ascites of unidentified aetiology despite two exploratory laparoscopies, with peritoneal sampling reported as reactive mesothelial hyperplasia. In one of the multiple evacuating paracentesis, ADA (adenosine deaminase) was found positive in the ascitic fluid. The Mantoux test was also positive and anti-tuberculosis treatment was started. Months later, haematology follow-up was started due to severe thrombopenia. A bone marrow biopsy was performed, compatible with ITP. Despite treatment, the patient continued with plateletopenia, presenting epistaxis that did not cease after tamponade, and urgent splenectomy was indicated. On admission, a biopsy of the peritoneum and a palpable axillary lymph node was obtained, showing intense peritoneal mesothelial hyperplasia associated with intense and diffuse reactive lymphoid follicular hyperplasia. The patient was readmitted for acute bilateral PTE and left humeral DVT, so LMWH was started at therapeutic doses.
The case was referred to Hospital La Paz in Madrid for further investigation. She reported fever, evening sweating, intense asthenia with arthromyalgia, left basal pleuritic pain with dyspnoea and frequent dry cough. During his admission, paracentesis was performed to diagnose dense, yellowish liquid, with the same biochemical profile as that analysed in Zamora, and the culture was sterile and B.A.A.R. negative. Chest CT angiography showed repletion defects related to acute pulmonary thromboembolism. Massive left pleural effusion with compressive atelectasis of LII, pathological mediastinal adenopathies of prevascular location. The lymph node sample obtained in Zamora was reviewed and reported as a castlemanoid process, with reactive mesothelial hyperplasia, with no evidence of malignancy. The cytokine profile, with high levels of IL-6, supports the diagnosis of Castelman's disease (MCD); and although serology for VHV8 and IHV was negative, serology for VHV6 was positive (1/640). After starting steroids, immunoglobulins and Rituximab, he showed clinical, analytical and radiological improvement.
She was readmitted a few months later for acute obstructive thrombosis of the right jugular vein and partial obstruction of the right subclavian vein. In view of the progression of the disease with Rituximab, treatment was started with Tocilizumab on a fortnightly basis associated with corticotherapy.
