Personal history
16-year-old Pakistani woman from Punjab province (Guirat district), resident in Spain for three years. Last visited Pakistan in July-October 2007. She was not married and had no children. No previous relevant illnesses. Lives with her father and an uncle (both livestock farmers), two brothers and a niece in Los Villares (Jaén), where she takes care of the household chores.

Current illness
She consulted the Emergency Department of our Hospital in May 2008, with a 4-5 day history of diffuse abdominal pain, more focused in the right iliac fossa (RIF), without vomiting or diarrhoea. Although she did not speak Spanish, in the anamnesis conducted and interpreted by her older sister, she also reported unquantified weight loss and loss of appetite in the last 3-4 weeks and a non-thermometric fever.
On initial examination in the ED, she was in good general condition, with a temperature of 37.8oC and pain on abdominal palpation in FID with voluntary defence. Urgent laboratory tests showed 13,650 leukocytes/μL, haemoglobin 11.2 g/L and prothrombin activity of 68%, with normal liver enzymes, amylase, total bilirubin and elemental urine analysis. Abdominal ultrasound was performed, where numerous adenopathies of up to 11 mm in diameter were detected in the short axis, with normal cecal, hepatobiliary and renal areas. With the diagnosis of "mesenteric adenitis", home observation, paracetamol and amoxicillin/clavulanic acid were indicated, and the patient was referred for follow-up by Primary Care. Seven days after initial discharge, the patient returned to the Hospital Emergency Department reporting daily fever with no thermometry and the appearance of a barely productive cough in the last few days, in addition to the aforementioned weight loss and asthenia.

Physical examination
On examination she was in good general condition, with a temperature of 39.4oC, eupneic at rest with baseline arterial O2 saturation of 95%. Cardiac auscultation was normal, and respiratory auscultation showed crackles in the left hemithorax and superimposed wheezing. The abdomen was slightly diffusely painful.

Complementary examinations
The haemogram and coagulation study showed 15,370 leukocytes/μL (91% neutrophils), haemoglobin 10.6 g/dL, MCV 78 and prothrombin activity of 49%. Liver and general biochemistry showed LDH 685 IU/L, but all other parameters (including renal function, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, ions, calcium and creatine kinase) were normal.
Chest X-ray showed condensation in the left upper lobe with areas of cavitation and thickening of the left paratracheal line compatible with mediastinal adenopathy and a small infiltrate in the right upper lobe. Sputum culture was negative. Serologies for HIV, hepatitis B and C virus were negative.

Evolution
Given the recent visit to his native country (Pakistan), the province and district where he lived being an area with a high incidence of tuberculosis (200-220 cases/ 100,000 inhabitants in 2007), and considering Pakistan as a country with high rates of multidrug-resistance, around 3-4%, quadruple antituberculosis therapy (HRZE) was started on 13 May 2008, with a good response to fever, which disappeared 72 hours after starting specific treatment. Mandatory declaration and study of cohabitants was performed. She was discharged from hospital with a diagnosis of pulmonary and probably lymph node tuberculosis, pending the results of the mycobacterial culture.
Six days after her discharge from hospital, she returned to the emergency department for oral intolerance with incoercible vomiting in the last 24 hours. The patient was in poor general condition, afebrile, haemodynamically stable and presented with diffuse abdominal distension and pain, with no signs of peritonism. Urgent laboratory tests showed total bilirubin 5.7 mg/dL, AST 1,801 IU/L, prothrombin activity 20%, urea 8 mg/dL and creatinine 0.4 mg/dL.
With the diagnosis of severe acute hepatitis of probable toxic-drug origin secondary to tuberculostatics, the patient was referred to the Hepatology Unit of our referral hospital (H.U. Reina Sofía de Córdoba). On admission, tuberculostatic treatment (HRZE) was suspended, and the patient remained stable for the first 48 hours. Forty-eight hours after discontinuation of treatment there was an improvement in laboratory parameters (prothrombin activity 34%, AST 395 IU/L, ALT 609 IU/L, total bilirubin 5.3 mg/dL), but fever reappeared. Pantoea agglomerans was isolated in one of the three blood cultures obtained during the febrile peak, and treatment with ertapenem (1 g iv. /24 hours), with persistence of daily fever (38.5-39oC) but with favourable evolution of liver biochemistry on the fifth day of treatment withdrawal (prothrombin activity 53%, AST 73 IU/L, ALT 334 IU/L, total bilirubin 2.6 mg/dL), so he was transferred to the Infectious Diseases Unit. On the sixth day after withdrawal of initial tuberculostatic treatment (HRZE), a non-hepatotoxic quadruple therapy regimen was started: streptomycin (750 mg im/day), ethambutol (1,200 mg vo/day), levofloxacin (500 mg vo/day) and linezolid (600 mg vo/day). Initial tolerance was good, as was the clinical and analytical evolution, but the patient, fourteen days after restarting specific treatment, persisted with daily high fever (up to 38.5oC). The analytical, microbiological and imaging tests performed did not reveal any new clinical focality or evidence of additional superinfection. At this point, the possibility of tuberculosis resistant to one or more of the drugs in the new regimen was raised, as well as the possibility of drug-induced fever. The results of the sputum mycobacterial culture taken during the previous admission were received and Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was isolated, sensitive to first-line drugs (isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, streptomycin) and second-line drugs (cycloserine, ethionamide, capreomycin, kanamycin, rifabutin and ofloxacin). The antituberculosis regimen was maintained, and on day +16 from its initiation, the fever began to completely and definitively subside. At discharge, the patient was afebrile and asymptomatic, with radiological improvement and the following laboratory parameters: total bilirubin 0.40 mg/dL, AST 29 IU/L, ALT 10 IU/L, GGT 155 IU/L, FA 161 IU/L, LDH 498 IU/L, prothrombin activity 80% and creatinine 0.5 mg/dL. She was referred for follow-up to the outpatient clinic of her hospital of origin (Alto Guadalquivir de Andújar). One month after discharge, the patient remained afebrile, asymptomatic, with weight gain, normal laboratory tests and progressive radiological improvement. At present she continues with the following pharmacological regimen: streptomycin 750 mg im/day (two months), ethambutol 1,200 mg vo./24 hours (initial two months, continuing with 10-12 mg/kg/day for a further ten months), linezolid (10 mg/kg/day for a further ten months) and ethambutol 1,200 mg vo./24 hours (initial two months).
for a further ten months), linezolid 600 mg vo./day (two months) and levofloxacin 500 mg vo./day (twelve months).

Diagnostic test
Sputum Ziehl's stain: positive (abundant BAAR). Sputum mycobacterial culture: Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex multisensitive is isolated.

Clinical judgement
Active pulmonary tuberculosis and probably also lymph node tuberculosis (disseminated tuberculosis).
