Female, 41 years old. Smoker. Conversive disorder being treated by psychiatry. She came to the emergency department for the fifth time in 12 days due to intense and continuous holocranial headache that did not go away with the usual analgesia together with numerous vomiting. No fever. No other symptoms.
Examination revealed only thinness, everything else including neurological examination was normal (Glasgow, cranial nerves, strength, sensitivity and meningeal signs). Afebrile and haemodynamically stable.
Urgent blood tests were performed with results of haemogram, biochemistry and coagulation within normal parameters, as well as cranial CT scan also normal. It was therefore decided to perform a lumbar puncture for microbiological analysis (culture and PCR) and cytobiochemical analysis (438 leukocytes: 1% polymorphonuclear, 99% mononuclear, 0 red blood cells, protein 68.2mg/dL and glucose 34mg/dL) compatible with lymphocytic meningitis, and it was decided to admit the patient for study and start symptomatic and antiviral treatment with Acyclovir 10mg/kg/8h IV.
During admission, a chest X-ray was performed, which was normal, and serology was requested for HIV, CMV, EBV and VZV, which were negative; in addition, cerebrospinal fluid PCR was negative for herpes simplex 1, 2 and 6, CMV, VZV and mycobacteria; EBV was weakly positive. Finally, a blood sample was also taken for virus serology and was positive for mumps virus with a strong positive IgM and negative IgG, compatible with an acute process. With this result, the patient was diagnosed with lymphocytic meningitis due to mumps virus, and the patient acknowledged having had contact with her son, who had suffered from acute mumps a month earlier.
The patient's clinical evolution was excellent with symptomatic treatment. She is currently asymptomatic.
The importance of the case lies in the ability to recognise cases of meningitis that occur in a more severe form and may be related to germs that less frequently cause meningitis, as in our case, due to mumps virus without signs of acute mumps, although with previous contact.
