Reason for consultation
Abdominal pain focused on the right flank.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
Personal history: 50-year-old woman. No known allergies. No toxic habits. No hypertension, no DM or dyslipidaemia. Primary hypothyroidism in substitutive treatment with Eutirox 50 mcg. Allergic rhinitis being treated with antihistamine on demand.
Anamnesis: The patient presented with continuous dull abdominal pain in the right flank for several days, accompanied by nausea without vomiting, without fever. The pain does not change with posture or analgesia. There was no associated micturition syndrome. This led to consultation in the emergency department.

Examination: General condition was good. Conscious and oriented. Eupneic at rest. Well hydrated and perfused. Normal cardiac and pulmonary auscultation. Soft depressible abdomen, painful on palpation in the right hypochondrium where a poorly defined indurated mass is palpated, without erythema or direct signs of inflammation of 3 cm in diameter. There were no signs of peritoneal irritation. Murphy's and Blumberg's signs were negative. Lower limbs: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.

Complementary tests: complete blood analysis with normal haemogram, normal biochemistry, normal coagulation. In addition, systematic urine analysis with negative gestational tests. Echo-CT scan of the abdomen was requested: a complex cystic lesion in the subcapsular periphery of segment VI of about 6.5 cm in diameter, rounded morphology, with a thin, enhanced wall and no solutions of continuity, with the presence in the ultrasound study of fine echogenic content in suspension, as well as an echogenic and folded undulating band compatible with intraluminal membrane. It is associated with thickening of the anterior pararenal fascia and ipsilateral lateroconal fascia, with adjacent fatty reticulation, findings considered inflammatory-reactive by neighbourhood. Taken together these findings suggest a liver cyst, possibly hydatid, complicated with sustained rupture.

Family and Community Approach
Lives with her husband and son. Native of Italy. Has lived in Spain for 20 years. Lower-middle socio-economic status. She has lived with a dog for a year and has been vaccinated and dewormed.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, referential diagnosis)
Clinical judgement: Subacute abdominal pain in the right hypochondrium probably related to complex liver cyst with contained rupture.
Differential diagnosis: Simple liver cyst; Hydatid cyst; Hamartoma of the biliary ductus; Caroli's disease; Embryonal hepatic sarcoma; Biliary cystadenocarcinoma; Hepatic abscess; Cystic metastases; Hepatocellular adneoma.


Action plan
In the emergency department, given the patient's symptoms, it was decided to request an abdominal CT-echo to identify the origin of the pain and the mass on examination.

Evolution
In the ED, blood and urine tests were normal. Abdominal CT-echo findings suggested a liver cyst, possibly hydatid, complicated with contained rupture. For all these reasons, a referral was made to General Surgery, which rejected urgent surgery, so it was decided to refer the patient to the Digestive System for study and identification of the cyst. It was decided to start treatment with Albendazole 400mg/12 hours for one month and to request complete blood tests with normal liver biochemistry, CRP, Ca19.9, CEA and haemogram, as well as AFP, HIV, HBV, HCV and negative Echinococcus serology; in addition to a CT scan of the abdomen C/C TRIPHASIC in August 2017 which showed a decrease in the size of the cystic lesion and where it was not possible to differentiate whether it was a simple biliary cyst or a hydatid cyst. In January 2018, a complete serology was again requested and was negative for Echinococcus. During all this time the patient has not presented pain. Therefore, the diagnosis is simple hepatic cyst.
