A 56-year-old woman, a housewife, consulted for three days of haematemesis, melena, bilateral epistaxis and the appearance of two spontaneous haematomas (in the right hypochondrium and left lower extremity). He also reported asthenia and adynamia.
He had a history of arterial hypertension and hypothyroidism under pharmacological management. He had denied recent consumption of alcohol, tobacco or psychoactive substances.
He was admitted to the local hospital in fair general condition, with a blood pressure 62/45 mmHg, heart rate 130 per min, respiratory rate 23 per min, with an oxygen saturation of 90% and body temperature of 37.5°. Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examination was normal.
With an initial diagnosis of hypovolemic shock secondary to upper gastrointestinal bleeding, intravenous crystalloids were started. The haemogram showed pancytopenia (leucocytes 3,582/mm3, predominantly neutrophils 2,937/mm3, platelets 97,000/mm3, haematocrit 34% and haemoglobin 7 g/dl). As she did not respond to crystalloid management, transfusion of blood products and inotropic support with vasoactive drugs was indicated. Subsequently, the patient was referred to a higher level institution with an intensive care unit (ICU).
At this institution, the patient arrived afebrile, with stable haemodynamics, blood pressure 100/75 mmHg, HR 112 per min, RR 22 per min, and oxygen saturation of 93%. Physical examination on admission revealed muco-cutaneous pallor, with capillary refill of less than 2 seconds, moderate epistaxis, rhythmic heart sounds of good intensity, no murmurs, attenuated pulmonary murmur in both lung bases, no aggregate sounds, normal abdomen and extremities. A post-transfusion haemogram showed leukocytes of 2,903/μL, predominantly neutrophilic, platelets of 14,000/μL, haematocrit of 30% and haemoglobin of 6 g/dl. Coagulation time, transaminases, bilirubin and direct Coombs were within normal limits, and LDH was slightly elevated. A CT scan of the abdomen showed mild splenomegaly (14.5 cm spleen) and a diagnosis of acute idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) with anaemia secondary to haemorrhage was made and dexamethasone 40 mg i.v. daily for four days was prescribed.
The subsequent immunological study (complement C3, C4, total complement, rheumatoid factor, and plasma concentration of immunoglobulins A, G and M) were normal and antinuclear antibodies (ANAs), c-ANCAs, anticardiolipins and lupus anticoagulant were negative, so the diagnosis of ITP was ruled out. Serology was requested for HIV, hepatitis B, C and VDRL, which were non-reactive. Four days after the start of corticosteroids, during which the patient had remained stable, she presented signs of respiratory distress, with oxygen desaturation up to 75%, intercostal retraction and thoracic-abdominal breathing, associated with decreased pulmonary murmur in the left hemithorax, cough with purulent expectoration and pleuritic pain, greater on the left; without fever or haemorrhage.
The haemogram showed a leukocytosis of 35,250/μL and neutrophilia (81%), with recovery of red series, platelets and coagulation tests. CRP was 11.2 mg/dL (normal value < 0.5 mg/dL). Chest X-ray and CT scan showed a septated left pleural effusion, without pulmonary infiltrate or consolidation. Empirical antimicrobial management was started as pleuropneumonia with piperacillin/tazobactam 4.5 g i.v. every six hours, after taking two blood cultures by puncture.
A left thoracentesis yielded 350 cc of purulent, fetid material which was cultured in blood culture vials. Gram stain of both blood cultures and pleural fluid showed gram-negative bacilli. Small round grey colonies grew on chocolate agar in an aerobic environment after 24 h of incubation, catalase and oxidase positive. It was identified as P. canis using the automated system VITEK 2 Systems: 03.01, with 100% certainty for all three samples.
The patient was transferred to the ICU for maintaining saturations between 75 and 80% with a Venturi 50% mask, where she was intubated, connected to mechanical ventilation and a pleural tube was placed to drain the empyema.
Given the microbiological results, both in blood cultures and pleural fluid, and the haemorrhagic manifestations on admission, the diagnosis of haemorrhagic septicaemia and pleural empyema secondary to P. canis was considered.
She completed 14 days with the indicated antimicrobial therapy with a satisfactory clinical evolution, given by stabilisation of vital signs and haemodynamics, as well as the possibility of extubation. The patient and family were reinterred and denied any recent contact with animals. Unfortunately, once discharged, it was not possible to follow up the patient.
