Anamnesis
We present a twelve-year-old boy, with no known drug allergies or medical or surgical history of interest, who was admitted to paediatrics for a respiratory complaint consisting of fever up to 38°C, cough, rhinorrhoea and arthromyalgia.
Due to this episode, the patient had received antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin, and alternating paracetamol and ibuprofen as antipyretic therapy.
Approximately seven days after the onset of the respiratory symptoms, the patient began to present extensive dermatosis in the form of inflammatory lesions in the form of nummular erythematous plaques centred by blisters.

Physical examination
These lesions had a bull's-eye morphology and affected the face, trunk and extremities, as well as the oral, ocular and genital mucosa, where he had extensive erosions and haemorrhagic crusts. There was no palmo-plantar involvement.
Erosions and haemorrhagic crusts on the oral mucosa.
Target-shaped lesions: plaques centred by erosions secondary to the rupture of blisters.

Complementary tests
The haemogram showed leukocytosis with a left shift and the biochemistry showed an increase in acute phase reactants. Blood cultures were negative. Serology for Mycoplasma pneumoniae (MP) was positive at a titre of 1/1280, so this microorganism was considered to be responsible for the patient's respiratory symptoms.

Diagnosis
Stevens-Johnson syndrome secondary to Mycoplasma pneumoniae.

Treatment
The patient was treated with azithromycin as a selective antimicrobial against the causative agent. Fluconazole and intravenous acyclovir were also prescribed. In addition, a regimen of topical treatment of the lesions was established with sulphadiazine silver and fusidic acid three times a day, paying special attention to the genital region to avoid retraction sequelae. For pain control, metamizole and rescue morphine chloride were used.

Evolution
The evolution of the lesions was very satisfactory. After admission, no new lesions developed and those present at the time of diagnosis showed rapid re-epithelialisation. At present, the residual hypopigmented areas have recovered their normal tone and the patient has no scarring or secondary adhesions.
