32-year-old male, no allergies, smoker of 10 cigarettes a day and cannabis, occasional drinker. Denies consumption of other intoxicants. History of affective and personality disorder, with manic episodes and previous admissions to the acute psychiatric unit, under treatment with clonazepam, sertraline and quetiapine.

HIV infection through homosexual transmission, diagnosed in another centre in 2007, as a result of a genital ulcer compatible with primary syphilitic chancre, with positive syphilis serology. He was treated with intramuscular penicillin, confirming serological cure. At diagnosis: basal CD4+ lymphocytes 920 cells/mm. We do not know the baseline viral load, but we do know that he had baseline resistances: L100I and R41K. HLAB57 negative. She did not start antiretroviral treatment as she had more than 500 CD4+ lymphocytes, attended regular check-ups, and was subsequently treated for a second episode of early latent syphilis. In mid-2014 he moved to our city and came for consultation for assessment. At that time he was asymptomatic with a normal clinical examination. He refers to a stable partner who lives in Madrid. He has not had any opportunistic infections during this time. His immunological status was re-evaluated: viral load 58,079 copies/ml and CD4+ lymphocytes 502 cells/mm3 (18%). The following was requested: complete blood tests with urine analysis, with no alterations; serology for hepatotropic viruses (HCV negative, HBV and HAV immunised); IgG for toxoplasma negative and IgG for cytomegalovirus positive (compatible with past infection); lúes with non-reactive RPR. At that time, the patient was advised to start antiretroviral treatment and a new resistance study was requested, which showed no new mutations with respect to the previous one. Taking into account his immunological situation, baseline resistance and possible drug interactions, mainly with antipsychotic medication, it was decided to start abacavir with lamivudine and dolutegravir, with good tolerance and efficacy, achieving an undetectable viral load after four weeks.

Subsequently, he was seen in the Digestive System Department for rectal discomfort that had started about two weeks earlier and consisted of significant pain in the rectal region and anus, especially when defecating, with stools of smaller than usual size, and rectorrhagia that had been progressing. There was no fever or general symptoms, nor were there any serious clinical data. On examination, she had a painful rectal examination, with no visible lesions; no genital ulcers or lymphadenopathies, and no other findings of note, either locally or in other locations. They decided to perform a rectoscopy which showed evidence of intense ulcerative proctitis, and a biopsy was taken with the anatomopathological findings of: "fragments of large intestine mucosa with chronic inflammation and granulation tissue showing viral cytopathic changes in some endothelial cells with positive immunostaining for Cytomegalovirus (CMV)". With the results of the diagnostic tests, he is referred for treatment.


Differential diagnosis
The patient consults for rectal symptoms. Anorectal pathology is a relatively frequent entity in HIV patients, particularly in homosexual males who practice receptive anal sex, usually due to trauma or sexually transmitted infections (STIs), with the most common findings being perirectal abscesses, anal fistulas, anal warts, non-specific ulcers, infectious proctitis, anal intraepithelial neoplasia (associated with human papillomavirus) and anal cancer. Much less frequently, these symptoms may not be associated with sexual practice and may be an expression of an inflammatory bowel disease, such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease. In this case, the rectoscopy showed an inflammation of the rectal mucosa or proctitis, which, given the patient's history (HIV infection and treated for syphilis twice), points to an STI. The germs that cause infectious proctitis are varied, and bacteria, viruses or protozoa may be involved in its aetiology. Of these, the most common are: Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis, Herpes simplex virus and Treponema pallidum. Although they may present asymptomatically, in most cases they cause a clinical picture similar to that presented by the patient (intense anal pain, mainly on defecation, usually associated with bleeding and rectal tenesmus, with the absence of general symptoms), and this does not usually provide specific data to help in the aetiological diagnosis. However, the differential diagnosis includes CMV infection, which is the germ found in the rectal biopsy and which can also cause proctitis, although it is a very uncommon cause. Less likely in our case would be other germs such as Escherichia coli, Shigella spp, Entamoeba histolytica (generally in gastrointestinal infections, not compatible with the patient's symptoms) and Clostridium difficile (usually in relation to previous antibiotherapy, which he had not taken). The usual culture, parasite study and detection of Clostridium toxin are generally sufficient for the diagnosis of these entities. Therefore, the question that arises is: is CMV really involved in the current picture or was it a chance finding?

Evolution
On re-historying the patient, he reported receptive anal intercourse without a condom with his partner who lives in Madrid. At that time it was decided not to start treatment for CMV and the diagnostic study was extended in search of other germs more frequently implicated and which, in turn, produce compatible symptoms. To this end, the following was requested: detection of genetic material by rectal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for herpes, gonococcus and chlamydia, as well as gonococcal culture and syphilis serology. These tests are routinely indicated in the evaluation of all patients with infectious proctitis and suspected STIs, as co-infection by several germs at the same time has been described. After sampling, empirical treatment was prescribed with a dose of ceftriaxone 1 gram intramuscularly and oral doxycycline at a dose of 100 mg every 12 hours for 21 days, with complete disappearance of symptoms a few days after starting treatment. The results of the requested tests showed a positive PCR for C. trachomatis (performed by real-time PCR system), with the rest of the studies negative.

Final diagnosis
Given the clinical context, microbiological findings and favourable response to treatment, the patient was finally diagnosed with: INFECTIOUS PROCTITIS DUE TO CHLAMYDIA TRACHOMATIS
