Anamnesis
53-year-old male, businessman, with no known drug allergies or toxic habits. He came to our clinic accompanied by his wife. He was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis with ocular and bulbar involvement of 20 years of evolution, thymectomised and under treatment with azathioprine 100 mg per day and pyridostigmine 180 mg per day. He did not follow routine check-ups by Neurology.
He consulted for generalised pruritic skin lesions of two days' evolution accompanied by intense burning, stabbing pain in the right parieto-temporal region. The patient reported pain in the right ear for 5 days and his general practitioner, observing some erythema in the external auditory canal, had prescribed ciprofloxacin drops for possible otitis externa. He also explained that he had been going through a period of stress for several months due to problems at work.

Physical examination
The patient was conscious, oriented, normal colour and normohydrated.
There was a disseminated cutaneous eruption consisting of multiple erythematous papules, some of which were vesicular and others crusted, which he related to the application of ear drops. They were distributed on both the trunk and the extremities.
There was no involvement of the mucous membranes, palms or soles. In addition, a large necrotic plaque with smaller satellite lesions was observed in the right temporal region. The rest of the physical examination was normal.

Complementary examinations
Blood tests showed megaloblastic anaemia (haemoglobin 9.6 g/dl and mean corpuscular volume 124 fl), coagulation, renal, hepatic and electrolyte function in the normal range. In addition, a chest X-ray showed a bilateral interstitial pattern suggestive of pneumonia.

Diagnosis
Clinical manifestations were compatible with disseminated right temporal herpes zoster in a patient immunosuppressed by chronic azathioprine. In addition, secondary varicella pneumonia and azathioprine megaloblastic anaemia were diagnosed.

Treatment
The patient was admitted (in isolation) and started treatment with intravenous acyclovir at a dose of 10 mg/kg every 8 hours, analgesia with paracetamol, nolotil and pregabalin, as well as zinc sulphate fomentation for 10 minutes twice a day and topical fusidic acid on the necrotic lesions of the scalp.

Evolution
The patient was admitted to hospital for a week with good evolution and completing the antiviral treatment. At discharge the lesions were in the crusting phase and the neuropathic pain was controlled with the prescribed analgesia. The control chest X-ray showed no abnormalities, and the pneumonia had resolved. The patient was referred to the outpatient neurology department for monitoring of his underlying disease.
