January 2018. 45-year-old woman, no known drug allergies. Personal history of chronic venous insufficiency, cellulitis in the right upper limb, one month ago, resolved after antibiotic treatment. She has undergone tonsillectomy and endometriosis. She does not receive regular home treatment. Not vaccinated against influenza. She came to the emergency department with fever up to 39oC, shivering and chills. This was associated with an initial cough with whitish expectoration of 5 days' duration, which worsened to the point of presenting with frank haemoptysis. On arrival she presented poor general condition, was conscious, oriented, cooperative, tachypneic using accessory muscles (34 rpm) with basal oxygen saturation 80% without oxygen supply, BP 70/45 mmHg and temperature 38C. On cardiac auscultation, tachyarrhythmic tones at 150 bpm with no audible murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation with secretion sounds up to upper fields and bibasal hypoventilation. Abdomen was nondescript. Lower limbs without oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis. Analysis showed impaired renal function (creatinine 1.64 mg/dl), slight alteration of liver enzymes, CRP 342 mg/L, lactic acid 55.5 mg/dl with metabolic acidosis (pH 7.17, pCO2 48 mmHg, bicarbonate 17. 5 mmol/L), leucopenia (550 leucocytes/μl), anaemia (Hb 9.5 g/dl), plateletopenia (65000/ μl), coagulopathy (prothrombin activity 65%, INR 1.48), fibrinogen 326 mg/dl. Chest X-ray showed a left basal alveolointerstitial infiltrate with associated pleural effusion. Given the patient's haemodynamic instability, she was transferred to the ICU for ventilatory support and intensive fluid therapy, requiring orotracheal intubation and high doses of vasoactive agents (adrenaline and noradrenaline) for haemodynamic control, with very poor peripheral perfusion and anuria.

Differential diagnosis
We are dealing with septic shock of respiratory origin in the context of severe community-acquired pneumonia FINE V with a qSOFA of 2 and SOFA of 7. Given that the patient is immunocompetent, we could rule out a priori that the causative microorganism is a fungus or protozoan, as these would be expected in immunocompromised patients1. We should consider bacterial or viral origin given the time of year. The clinical presentation of the case with fever with shivering and chills, productive cough with acute onset and well-defined alveolar infiltrate in the chest X-ray suggests typical bacteria such as Streptococcus pneumoniae (the first cause to be taken into account as it is the most frequent), Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, Staphylococcus aureus, group A streptococci, gram-negative or microaerophilic enterobacteria and anaerobes, the latter being ruled out a priori due to the low probability of aspiration3. However, the typical presentation does not always correspond to typical bacteria, so we would have to include atypical bacteria (presenting intrinsic resistance to beta-lactams and not seen in gram staining or growing in culture with traditional techniques) such as Legionella spp. (discarded in principle for not being in a plausible epidemiological context), Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Chlamydia psittaci (key epidemiological factor of contact with birds) and Coxiella burnetii. As for plausible viruses, Influenza A and B should be taken into account, as we are in the midst of a seasonal outbreak, Rhinovirus, Parainfluenza virus, Adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus. The patient had no significant comorbidity, had only taken a small course of antibiotics a month earlier for cellulitis of the upper limb and had not had any contact with the healthcare system, nor had she undergone any invasive intervention, so we would not expect to find resistant microorganisms in the context of a nosocomial/nosohusial process.  Evolution The patient had a very torpid evolution in the ICU, requiring infusion of vasoactive agents at high doses and mechanical ventilation for 15 days.

The first microbiological results were: negative urine culture, negative pneumococcal antigen in urine, positive Influenza A RNA and negative Influenza B RNA. On the second day of admission, the microbiology department reported a preliminary report of growth in the bronchial aspirate culture and in two blood cultures of gram-positive cocci, which were finally identified as pansensitive Streptococcus pyogenes (group A). Empirical treatment with meropenem was started and, following microbiological results, oseltamivir and clindamycin were added. On the tenth day of admission to the ICU, antibiotherapy was withdrawn due to good evolution of the patient, although she maintained invasive ventilatory support. During her stay in the ICU she presented multiple infectious complications related to admission to this unit, including respiratory superinfection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and dry necrosis of the hands and feet secondary to the use of vasoactive agents that required bilateral infracondylar amputation and remodelling of the acral portions of the 10 fingers throughout her stay. At the same time, in the same week, two new cases of Streptococcus pyogenes pneumonia were diagnosed, isolated in blood cultures and bronchial aspirate. Both cases were severe, one of them requiring admission to the ICU, and he died a few hours after admission due to multi-organ failure. The other case was satisfactorily managed in the infectious diseases ward after initiating targeted antibiotherapy within 24 hours due to early growth in blood cultures. Given the low incidence of this entity as community-acquired pneumonia, we sequenced all strains with concordance of all of them. An epidemiological study was carried out by the Preventive Medicine Department of our hospital due to suspicion of an outbreak, but no common factors interrelating the cases were identified.

Final diagnosis
Seasonal influenza complicated by septic shock due to severe community-acquired pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pyogenes.
