Anamnesis
A 10-year-old woman, with no personal or family history of interest. She reported that 7 days ago, while bathing in the Mediterranean Sea, she felt the bite of a marine animal on the back of her right leg, presenting immediate pain, itching and linear erythematous lesions. Topical corticosteroids were prescribed, improving the symptoms. Five days later, the patient began to develop a rash with erythematous, slightly pruritic, erythematous, oedematous papular lesions, mainly on the trunk.

Physical examination
Examination revealed multiple linear crusted lesions on the back of the right leg. On the trunk and cheeks, there were symmetrically distributed, erythematous erythematous-edematous lesions in the form of macules and papules. On both buttocks the lesions converged, acquiring the morphology of round plaques, some with a paler colouring in the centre, giving the appearance of targets in some of them. There were no mucosal lesions. No other findings were observed in the physical examination.

Complementary examinations
Laboratory tests were requested, including a complete blood count, biochemical profile, acute phase reactants, urine test, chest X-ray, serology for CMV, EBV, HAV, HBV, HCV and parvovirus, all within normal limits.
A punch skin biopsy of one of the lesions on the thigh showed lymphocytic exocytosis, foci of spongiosis, parakeratosis, presence of few necrotic keratinocytes and signs of focal vacuolisation of the basal layer in the epidermis. In the dermis there was a superficial perivascular lymphohistiocytic infiltrate with moderate presence of eosinophils.

Diagnosis
Erythema multiforme secondary to Cnidaria sting.

Treatment
Topical antibiotic for over-infected areas of the right leg and monitoring.

Evolution
Together with the clinical and histological findings, the diagnosis of erythema multiforme was established. Since contact with the marine animal was the only associated factor, we concluded that the erythema multiforme was secondary to the bite of this cnidarian. After treatment with corticosteroid and topical antibiotic at the site of the bite, the pain and inflammation improved. After healing of the linear lesions, slight hyperpigmentation persisted. The erythema multiforme lesions regressed spontaneously after 7-10 days.
