A 48-year-old man with no known drug allergies or toxic habits, with a history of community-acquired pneumonia, came to the emergency department with a two-week history of fever of up to 38.5o C accompanied by general malaise, asthenia and episodes of sweating, predominantly in the evening. During the last two weeks he has consulted the emergency department on several occasions due to these symptoms, and has been discharged with a diagnosis of short-term febrile syndrome, and blood cultures have been taken which so far have not detected any growth of microorganisms. There were no ENT, respiratory, digestive, cutaneous or urological symptoms. As epidemiological background we can highlight that the patient lives in a rural area and has regular contact with properly vaccinated dogs. On examination, he was in an acceptable general state, conscious, oriented and cooperative. There were no palpable peripheral lymphadenopathies or neck stiffness. Eupneic at rest, tolerating the decubitus, afebrile (35.8o) and haemodynamically stable with blood pressure of 125/68 mmHg. Cardiopulmonary auscultation showed rhythmic tones at 77 bpm, without murmurs, friction or extratonos and preserved vesicular murmur, without pathological sounds. The abdomen is soft, depressible, without masses or organomegaly. The lower extremities showed petechial lesions, without oedema or signs of thrombosis. Blood tests: glycaemia, renal function and ions in the normal range and C-reactive protein of 104 mg/L. Haemoglobin 14.4 g/dl, leukocytes 10,700/mm3 and platelets 166,000/mm3.  The chest X-ray showed no notable pleuroparenchymal alterations.  In the emergency department he was classified as febrile syndrome of intermediate duration and empirical antibiotic treatment was continued with amoxicillin 875 mg/clavulanic acid 125 mg every 8 hours.

Differential diagnosis
In summary, this is a patient with fever of intermediate duration without clear focality except for cutaneous manifestations in the lower limbs, so we will focus the differential diagnosis on fever of unknown origin, even though we know that in up to 20% of cases, the aetiology is not known.

Taking into account the epidemiological context of the patient, one of the causes to be taken into account would be Mediterranean spotted fever, transmitted by ticks and caused by Rickettsia conorii, which presents with fever, headache, myalgia, papular lesions on palms and soles and a necrotic eschar, due to inoculation at the site of the tick bite. Other pathologies to be considered in the epidemiological context of the patient are Coxiella burnetii as the causative agent of Q fever, Brucella melitensis as the causative agent of human brucellosis and Leishmania spp.

Another possible diagnosis in a patient with fever of probable infectious origin with cutaneous manifestations is meningitis caused by Neisseria meningitidis characterised by fever, headache, nausea, vomiting, petechial lesions on ankles, wrists and mucosal surfaces. However, this diagnosis was ruled out as our patient showed no change in mental status and no signs of meningismus.

Primary human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, when symptomatic, usually manifests as a typically maculopapular rash, spreading to the palms and soles of the feet, associated with fever, lymphadenomegaly, severe headache, diarrhoea and arthralgias. Within the differential diagnosis of febrile syndrome with petechial lesions on the lower limbs, we would have to evaluate a possible infectious endocarditis with negative blood cultures, as occurs with Coxiella burnetii, Bartonella spp, Legionella spp, Mycoplasma spp, Mycobacterium spp, T. whipplei or slow-growing microorganisms with special requirements or difficult to identify such as the members of the HACEK group (Haemophilus Aggregatibacter, Cardiobacterium, Eikenella and Kingella spp), or others such as Abiothrophia spp, Granulicatella spp or Gemella spp3. If we focus on petechial lesions on both lower limbs, we should rule out numerous pathologies, some more frequent such as primary skin disorders, vasculitis, systemic lupus erythematosus, coagulation disorders, and others less frequent such as vascular fragility or malformations, intravascular thrombosis, embolisms or diseases mediated by immunocomplexes. Within the clinical picture we are dealing with, other possibilities, although more remote but which should be considered once the above have been ruled out, would be the existence of intra-abdominal abscesses, mononucleosis syndromes that can sometimes debut without adenopathy, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, herpes simplex virus 6, parvovirus B19, viral hepatitis and extrapulmonary and disseminated tuberculosis. On the other hand, it must be considered that the origin may be tumoural, which is frequent in leukaemias, carcinomas (especially colon, renal, hepatocarcinoma or metastatic lesions), sarcomas and, typically, in atrial myxoma.

Evolution
Ten days after blood cultures were taken, Capnocytophaga canimorsus (1/6) was isolated and was sensitive to ampicillin, so the patient was contacted and returned to the emergency department. The patient presented with a febrile syndrome of four weeks' duration with general malaise, weight loss and asthenia, accompanied for the last three days by dyspnoea and productive cough. On examination, the patient was haemodynamically stable with blood pressure of 113/70 mmHg, tachypnoea saturating at 97% with no use of accessory muscles. Cardiopulmonary auscultation showed rhythmic tones at 102 bpm with a panfocal systolic murmur III-IV/VI, and a globally decreased vesicular murmur, with no additional pathological sounds. The abdomen was soft, depressible, without masses or organomegaly. Petechial lesions persisted on the lower extremities, without oedema or signs of thrombosis. In view of these findings, transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) was performed, showing vegetations on the native aortic and mitral valves suggestive of infective endocarditis, with intense valve destruction (aortic insufficiency and mitral regurgitation, both severe) together with dilatation of both left chambers. The result of the echocardiography together with the blood cultures established the diagnosis of endocarditis, as he fulfilled one major and three minor Duke criteria. He underwent emergency surgery, and after cleaning and removal of devitalised and infected tissues, a double mitral and aortic valve replacement was performed with implantation of two biological valve prostheses. In the immediate postoperative period, the patient presented third-degree atrioventricular block with transient pacemaker dependence, so DDD permanent pacemaker was finally implanted without incident.

The microbiological culture of the valves was negative, but in the samples analysed by genomic analysis by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequencing of the 16s ribonucleic acid (RNA) gene, the presence of Capnocytophaga canimorsus was detected, so the patient received postoperative antimicrobial treatment with ampicillin 2 g/iv/4hours for three weeks, with good tolerance and no recurrence of fever. At the end of this treatment, an ultrasound check-up was performed, showing both prostheses to be normal and functioning, together with slight pleural and pericardial effusion. Given the good clinical evolution, the patient was discharged home. A week later, he consulted the emergency department again for two days of general malaise accompanied by fever of up to 39°C and cold sweats. He did not report any focal symptoms in the interrogation. There were no respiratory, digestive or urological symptoms. On examination, the patient is haemodynamically stable with blood pressure of 115/72 mmHg, eupneic at rest, saturating at 98%. Cardiopulmonary auscultation showed rhythmic tones at 92 bpm and decreased vesicular murmur in the left lung base with no additional pathological sounds. Healed surgical wound, stable sternum without suppuration. Lower extremities without oedema or signs of thrombosis. Blood glucose, renal function and ions in range, C-reactive protein of 71 mg/L. Haemoglobin 10.2 g/dl, leukocytes 7,830/mm3 and platelets 206,000/mm3.

In summary, we are dealing with a patient who underwent valve replacement four weeks ago due to mitroaortic infective endocarditis caused by C. canimorsus and pacemaker implantation, with a febrile syndrome without focality. Given the patient's history, blood cultures were taken and transthoracic echocardiography was performed, with similar results to those obtained prior to discharge.

At this point, a new differential diagnosis was established, assessing the most likely aetiologies as recurrence of endocarditis, pacemaker infection, surgical site infection and the development of pleuropericardial syndrome. The absence of analytical data supporting an infectious aetiology, the negative serial blood cultures and the fact that the patient had undergone targeted antibiotic treatment for four weeks led to rule out an infectious entity as the first diagnostic option. The presence of a small left pleural effusion together with pericardial effusion and the absence of vegetations on ultrasound led to the conclusion that pleuropericardial syndrome was the most likely diagnosis. This disorder affecting both pleura and pericardium frequently appears after cardiac surgery and is characterised by left pleural effusion. Given the clinical diagnosis of febrile syndrome probably caused by pleuropericardial syndrome, he was treated with prednisone 60 mg/24h for three days with good tolerance and apparent resolution of fever, and was discharged with corticosteroid treatment.

He was readmitted ten days later with poor general condition, tending to hypotension, dyspnoeic at rest and with QSOFA score 2. On examination there was a violaceous lesion on the thumb of the first finger of the right lower limb. Laboratory tests revealed acute renal failure with creatinine of 2 mg/dl and lactic acid of 6.1 mmol/L. The haemogram showed leukocytosis of 47,360/mm3 with neutrophilia and thrombopenia of 20,000/mm3. Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography showed an image compatible with vegetation in the mitroaortic region with involvement of the tricuspid septal leaflet and fistulisation of the membranous septum causing a perimembranous ventricular septal defect at the level of the aortic root. In view of these findings, he was diagnosed with septic and cardiogenic shock secondary to infective endocarditis with extensive involvement of the mitral and aortic valves. In the following hours he progressed to multiorgan failure refractory to fluids, amines, antibiotics and mechanical ventilation, finally dying of asystole.

Final diagnosis
Infective mitroaortic endocarditis on native valves due to Capnocytophaga canimorsus.
