48-year-old woman with a personal history of hypertension and dyslipidaemia on treatment with ACE inhibitors and statins. Cesarean section in one pregnancy and bilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy.

In 2014 she underwent abdominal surgery for mesenteric thrombosis with subtotal resection of the intestine and the need for an abdominal jejunostomy in the left flank. In this context, she required a long hospital stay of approximately 4 months and was discharged with home parenteral nutrition (TPN) via a Hickman catheter due to short bowel syndrome, while awaiting intestinal transplantation. During this hospitalisation she had several episodes of catheter-related bacteraemia (CRB) with the only microbiological isolation of Candida glabrata, requiring several catheter replacements. In the current episode, two weeks after being discharged from the surgery department, he consulted again for high fever with bacteraemic characteristics, with no other symptoms of note in terms of organs or equipment.

On examination on arrival, he was haemodynamically stable, had a peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) in the right antecubital fold with no signs of local infection and a Hickman catheter connected to a nutrition bag. The oral mucosa showed whitish plaques suggestive of thrush. There was no neurological focality or signs of meningeal irritation. On cardiopulmonary auscultation there were no audible murmurs and the vesicular murmur was preserved in all fields. The abdomen was not very depressible, the mid-laparotomy scar was in good condition, there was a functioning jejunostomy and there was no evidence of peritonism.

Among the complementary tests on admission, the blood count showed no leukocytosis, with a slight neutrophilic predominance (80%) and CRP of 14.84 mg/L. Renal function, electrolytes and bilirubin were unaltered, although GPT of 182 U/L and LDH of 363 U/L were observed. There were no alterations in basic coagulation. An abdominal ultrasound was performed, which was unremarkable. Initially, blood and urine cultures were taken, empirical antibiotherapy was started with meropenem 1 g/8h and linezolid 600 mg/12h, until isolation of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis in all blood cultures obtained by venipuncture and through PICC. Given that initially the catheter had not been removed and the fever persisted, it was decided to remove the PICC line, and to combine treatment with caspofungin at a dose of 70 mg/24h given the isolation of Candida spp. in the previous hospitalisation; although the Hickman catheter was initially maintained against the advice given, given the difficulty of recanalisation of a venous access for TPN. Defervescence was achieved for 4 days with subsequent recurrence of fever.

Differential diagnosis
We found a patient with almost total resection of the intestine, with severe nutrient absorption disorder, requiring complete TPN through a central venous line, as well as PICC for the administration of the remaining medication and with a history of a long hospital stay, complicated by multiple repeated infections of central and peripheral catheters.
Given that the fever persisted despite treatment directed at the microorganism isolated in different cultures and the removal of the PICC, we considered the following differential diagnosis as possible causes of the fever:

Nosocomial origin: Although she did not present micturition symptoms, this was a patient who had had a bladder catheter, so we ruled out urinary tract infection by taking a urine culture, which was negative. She also had no respiratory symptoms, although a chest CT scan was requested, which did not show any infiltrates. On the other hand, the surgical wounds showed no signs of local infection, although the abdominal CT scan ruled out abscesses or complications. Lastly, in her situation and with her previous history of CRB, it seemed likely that we would be in the same situation, especially since they had not been replaced, but only antibiotic therapy had been given.
2. Bacterial endocarditis: There was no known heart disease, but it was important to determine whether it was endocarditis on the native valve, given the persistent bacteraemia, with isolation of coagulase-negative staphylococcus (CNS) in repeated blood cultures, which made it unlikely that the cultures had been contaminated. Transesophageal echocardiography ruled it out in principle.
3. Catheter-related fever: When a patient with chronic endovascular devices (Hickman and PICC) develops fever without focus, an infection related to the venous catheter should always be suspected. In addition, our patient had a previous history of CRB secondary to Candida glabrata in the previous admission.
4. Fever associated with autoimmune/systemic diseases. The entire autoimmunity battery was requested to screen for autoimmune/systemic disease (ANA, ENA, AAF and ANCA), all of which were negative.
5. Fever associated with neoplasms. No favourable data were found in the imaging tests requested, although tumour markers, proteinogram and B2-microglobulin in analytical tests were expanded, all without notable alterations.
6. Drug-associated fever. Although unlikely in our case, we had to consider this option in the event that all of the above proved negative. It continues to be a relatively frequent cause of persistent fever without a clear focal point.

Evolution
Having ruled out other causes of fever, with the general analytical tests and autoimmunity, culture results and imaging tests, despite treatment directed against the isolated microorganism and broadening the antibiotic spectrum to cover gram-positive coccobacilli (GPC) and fungi; on the other hand, with PICC withdrawn, the most likely cause of persistent fever appeared to be infection of the Hickman catheter through which NTP was administered. In these circumstances, it was decided to remove the Hickman catheter, and in coordination with Interventional Radiology, it was decided to maintain TPN via PICC. The patient was maintained for 48 hours with antibiotic therapy and without a central catheter.
To avoid new episodes of CRB, and consulting the literature, it was decided to seal the catheter with taurolidine, and the patient's husband was also trained to seal it. She was finally discharged home apyretic, without antibiotherapy and with good tolerance to NTP. She remained stable, without any septic problems, during the study of suitability for intestinal transplant and is awaiting transfer to Madrid for the same.

Final diagnosis
Long-term central venous catheter-related bacteraemia (Hickman type) in a patient with short bowel syndrome dependent on parenteral nutrition.

