Hakim Coleman, 25 years old, is a US Army veteran, now a student at a public university, who comes to the emergency department (ED) with his girlfriend and sister. On examination, he is a tall, slim, well-groomed young man with glasses. He speaks softly and has increased speech latency. Affect is flattened except when talking about his symptoms, when he shows anxiety.
Mr. Coleman explained that he had come to the ED at his sister's suggestion. She said that he could do with a "general check-up", because he had been having "migraines" and "hallucinations of a spiritual nature" for several days, which had been going on for 3 months. The headache consisted of bilateral "sharp, stabbing" sensations in different parts of the head, and a kind of "buzzing" along the midline of the brain that seemed to get worse when he thought about his vices. Mr. Coleman described his vices as "alcohol, cigarettes, not respecting my parents and girls". He denied guilt, anxiety or uneasiness about his military duties while serving in Iraq, but had joined an evangelical church four months earlier because he felt "eaten up with guilt" over "everything I've done". Three months earlier he began "hearing voices trying to make me feel guilty" almost every day.
The last auditory hallucination had occurred the day before. During those months he had observed strangers commenting on his past sins. Mr. Coleman believed that his migraines and guilt could be due to alcohol withdrawal. He had been drinking three or four cans of beer almost every day of the week for several years until he "gave it up" four months earlier, after joining the church. He still drank "one or two beers" every 2 weeks, but felt guilty afterwards. He said he had no alcohol withdrawal symptoms such as shaking and sweating. He had smoked cannabis up to twice a month for years, but had stopped completely when he joined the church. He denied using other drugs except once, 3 years ago, when he had taken cocaine without any problems. He slept well except for occasional nights when he only slept for a few hours in order to finish some academic work. Otherwise, Mr. Coleman said that he had no depressive, manic or psychotic symptoms and no violent ideation. He denied that he had symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In terms of stressors, he was overwhelmed by his current responsibilities, such as going to college and attending his church activities almost daily. At the beginning of the academic year he had been getting straight A's and now he was getting B's and C's. The patient's girlfriend and his sister were also stressors for him. The patient's girlfriend and sister were interviewed separately. They agreed that Mr. Coleman had become withdrawn and quiet, whereas before he had been a fun-loving, outgoing person. He had also never been particularly Teligious before. The sister believed that Mr. Coleman had been "brainwashed" by the church. The girlfriend, however, had attended several services with the patient and reported that several members of the congregation had told her that, although they had sometimes spoken to new members who felt guilty about their previous behaviour, none of them had ever had hallucinations, so they were very concerned about him. The patient's physical examination, including neurological examination, was normal, as was the blood system, blood alcohol and urinary toxicology. A computerised tomography (CT) scan of the skull was performed, which was also normal. 
