Reason for consultation
A 19 year old patient came to the primary care clinic for a continuous cough of three weeks' duration.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
19-year-old Spanish national, student teacher. Personal history of right bundle branch block, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis and mild asthma. No family history of interest. On treatment with salbutamol on demand. No drug allergies. Drinks alcoholic beverages occasionally. Non-smoker.

The patient comes to the clinic with a dry cough of three weeks' evolution of increasing intensity that interferes with night-time rest. It increases with exercise. Slight rhinorrhoea. No dyspnoea and auscultation is normal. Partial improvement using salbutamol on demand. Given the personal history, it was decided to start budesonide 160 mcg/formoterol fumarate dihydrate 4.5 mcg 2 inhalations every 12 hours.

She returned two months later with a cough with greenish expectoration and fever of two days' duration. Auscultation showed crackles in the left base, so Amoxicillin 875mg/ clavulanic acid 125mg every 8 hours was prescribed for 7 days with improvement. Despite this, he returned three weeks later because the cough persisted, with increased access in the last week and whitish expectoration. That same morning, haemoptotic expectoration. In addition, he again presented with an inconsistent fever, reaching 39-40o, predominantly in the evening and with night sweats. Pleuritic pain in the anterior part of the right hemithorax. No dyspnoea. In addition, upon further anamnesis, the parents reported a weight loss of 6-7 kg in the last few months. She has not travelled.

Examination: good general condition, normohydrated, normoperfused, eupneic at rest. Vitals: BP: 114/59, HR 104lpm, SatO2 99%, T 37.8o.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs. Bladder murmur was preserved with no additional sounds.

Urgent X-ray was requested, showing:
Extensive cavitated lesion in the right upper lobe with a hydro-aerial level. Other smaller lesions at the base. Nodular alveolar-interstitial infiltrate in the left hemithorax, suggestive of bronchogenic dissemination.

The patient was referred to the emergency department for further tests and assessment by respiratory medicine. The most relevant results of the tests performed were as follows:
CBC: C-reactive protein 142, procalcitonin 0.07, leukocytes 14590/μL with neutrophilia 93%. Haemoglobin 12 g/dL, haematocrit 36%, mean corpuscular volume 76.7fL, platelets 430000/μL.

Sputum smear microscopy: Mycobacterium tuberculosis DNA was detected with sensitivity to all first-line drugs tested.
During his stay in the emergency department, the patient remained in good general condition, haemodynamically stable, with little expectoration and a small amount of haematic debris.
The patient had good family support and a good understanding of the diagnosis. Prevention of transmission of the disease was necessary, so discharge with home treatment and isolation was decided.

Family and community approach
Intact nuclear family structure, the patient lives with both parents and older brother. Although the patient was initially anxious at home given the possibility of transmission of the disease, there was good family support at all times, which promoted home treatment.

Clinical judgement (problem list, differential diagnosis)
Cavitary pulmonary tuberculosis. The case raised several differential diagnoses: bronchial hyperreactivity or respiratory tract infection. We must also consider other pathologies that present haemoptysis, such as bronchogenic carcinoma; or cavitated lesions, with infectious causes (Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Nocardiosis, Actinomycosis, Aspergillosis or Histoplasmosis), neoplastic (bronchioalveolar cancer and carcinoid), rheumatological (granulomatosis with polyangiitis) and others.

Action plan and evolution
The patient started home treatment with rifampicin 150/isoniazid 75/pyrazinamide 400/ethambutol hydrochloride 275mg 4 tablets/24h for two months with good tolerance, then changed to rifampicin 300/isociacid 150mg 2 tablets/24h, which he is currently taking and will remain on for 4-7 months. He spent the first month at home due to respiratory isolation.
Evolution
The patient was seen one week later for a check-up. He continued with occasional fever and cough. He was anxious about his condition, especially because his mother and 22-year-old brother had been tested with IGRA (interferon gamma release assay), and both were positive, so he had feelings of guilt.
He has been seen four times so far by Pneumology. Good evolution of the symptoms, currently occasional cough.
Analytical tests were performed at all consultations, with improvement in acute phase reactants, negative serology for HIV and hepatitis, and a new sputum smear test two months later negative for BAAR.
A control X-ray at four and a half months showed significant improvement, with disappearance of infiltrates in the left lung. The right lung is regressing, with a cicatricial appearance, and there is still an image of a cavity in the right upper lobe.
Pending further examination by the pulmonology department.
The entire cohabiting family underwent the IGRA test, which was positive for his mother and brother.
The father was tested again eight weeks later and was still negative.
Active tuberculosis was ruled out in the mother and brother, who underwent a chest X-ray and sputum culture. They started chemoprophylactic treatment with isoniazid 300mg/24h for 9 months, with adequate tolerance.
