We present a clinical case that we consider of special interest in clinical practice, due to the characteristics of the patient, the associated poor prognostic factors and the torpid evolution despite achieving good control in the treatment of HIV infection. The patient is a 28-year-old male, diagnosed in September 2012 with HIV infection following acute pharyngotonsillitis and skin lesions predominantly on the face. His immunological status at that time was 334 CD4/mm3 (24%) and viral load (VL) of 115,000 copies/mL. Simultaneously, he was diagnosed with secondary syphilis, receiving treatment with penicillin, but without any treatment for HIV infection and sporadically having unprotected sex (man who has sex with men).
In January 2015, he progressively began to experience dyspnoea on moderate exertion, cough and expectoration with occasional haematic debris and weight loss, and attended an internal medicine outpatient clinic in May 2015, where it was decided to admit him to hospital for further investigation. During admission, she recognised the appearance of skin lesions in 2013, which had not completely disappeared. Physical examination revealed multiple raised, purplish lesions scattered over the trunk, upper and lower limbs, neck, right palatal and retropharyngeal region and inguinal region, forming an indurated conglomerate that was painful on palpation. In addition, he had other millimetric lesions on the torso, left intercostal region and back, which initially simulated folliculitis, but which on close examination suggested metameric Herpes Zoster. In the anal-perianal region, there were nonspecific superficial ulcerated lesions, predominantly in the intergluteal region. Mucosal examination revealed oropharyngeal candidiasis. With a diagnosis of untreated stage C HIV infection, skin lesions compatible with Kaposi's sarcoma, clinical signs of visceral (pulmonary) involvement and oropharyngeal candidiasis, additional diagnostic tests were requested. The CD4 count was 268 CD4/mm3, CV of 809,978 copies/ml, HLA B 5701 negative and genotypic resistance test without mutations for reverse transcriptase inhibitors or protease inhibitors. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) was started with tenofovir/emtricitabine, raltegravir and ritonavir-boosted darunavir. In addition, fluconazole, cotrimoxazole and empirical antibiotic treatment for community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) with cefotaxime and clarithromycin were added. Chest X-ray and computed tomography (CT) and histopathological study of skin, lung and lymph node samples confirmed the diagnosis of Kaposi's sarcoma. All cultures were negative. Empirical antibiotic treatment for CAP was suspended, maintaining only cotrimoxazole as secondary prophylaxis against P. jirovecii infection. During the first days of admission, the patient worsened, requiring admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) and non-invasive mechanical ventilation. Simultaneously, the first line of oncological treatment with liposomal doxorubicin was started, with good tolerance and initial clinical response, and was maintained until completing a total of 6 cycles, with the maximum radiological response being stabilisation of the disease at pulmonary level. During chemotherapy treatment, he required hospital admission on two occasions due to anasarca. One month after completing treatment (October 2015), she presented worsening respiratory function and an increase in the number of violaceous lesions on the limbs. A follow-up chest CT scan confirmed the progression of the disease in the lungs, secondary to Kaposi's sarcoma, as well as in the skin. A second line of treatment with paclitaxel (100mg/m2 biweekly) was proposed, readjusting ART (darunavir/ritonavir was suspended and tenofovir/emtricitabine and raltegravir were maintained). After the first two cycles, he started with clinical improvement. He has currently received 6 cycles with good tolerance and progression.
