A 63-year-old man came to the hospital with a brownish cough of 6 months' duration, which had become haemoptotic in the last three weeks. His medical history included ex-smoker (40 packs/year), alcoholism of 60 g/day: hemp worker for 15 years: he fulfilled the criteria for chronic bronchitis with 20 years of evolution; arterial hypertension with 2 years of evolution, treated with alpha-methyl dopa. He has a dog and a cat at home, which he takes care of himself. His illness started about 6 months earlier, with an increase in his basal cough accompanied by brownish expectoration and increased dyspnoea, and he also reported occasional afternoon febrile fever. No chest pain, haemoptysis, anorexia or weight loss. He had been treated with various antibiotics without improvement. Three weeks before admission, his expectoration became haemoptotic, prompting him to consult the hospital. Physical examination on admission showed a patient in good general condition, without fever, and pulmonary auscultation showed bilateral inspiratory crackles. Blood tests showed 7,400 leukocytes with normal formula. Baseline arterial blood gas showed a pH of 7.37, a pCO2 of 47 and a p02 of 61 mmHg. Urine sediment was normal. Chest X-ray showed a bilateral interstitial pattern with areas of alveolar confluence in the left lower lobe. Mantoux with 5 UT was positive at 15 mm at 48 hours. Serial sputum smears were negative, as were Lowenstein cultures. Sputum gram on admission was reported as mixed flora, although it met the characteristics for culture. On admission, antibiotic treatment was started with erythromycin at a dose of 500 mg/6 hours orally, together with bronchodilators and oxygen. As there was no clinical or radiological improvement after 72 hours, it was decided to perform bronchoscopy and LBA. Bronchoscopy showed a bilateral inflammatory process predominantly in the left base with no endobronchial lesions or haematic debris; the LBA recovered a yellowish liquid with 84 % neutrophils and the lymphocyte populations in the LBA showed: CD40.1 %, CD8 58.4 % with a CD4/CD8 ratio of 0.002. Pasteurella multocida grew in pure culture in the cultures of the three portions of the ABL. A lung scan with gallium 67 was also performed and showed no uptake. In view of the patient's antibiogram, treatment was continued with amoxicillin with good clinical evolution and complete radiological resolution by the fifth month after discharge. In order to rule out bronchiectasis, a thoracic computerised tomography (CT) scan was performed which confirmed the existence of bilateral bronchiectasis in the lower lobes, as well as residual fibrotic lesions in both vertexes.
