A 50-year-old man consulted the emergency department for presenting, for the last month, haemoptotic expectoration which in the last 15 days had been accompanied by pain in the left side with pleuritic characteristics, without fever, without dysthermic sensation, without constitutional syndrome or other accompanying symptoms. Among his personal history, he was a farm worker, a former smoker of 60 packs/year for a year and a half, with a stable partner for 6-7 years. A year earlier he had been diagnosed with right basal pneumonia, which resolved with antibiotic treatment on an outpatient basis. His physical examination revealed a good general state of health, and he was conscious and oriented, eupneic at rest. He presented left supreclavicular adenopathies of approximately 1 cm in diameter, painless, non-adherent. Pulmonary auscultation showed rhythmic tones without murmurs, with a generalised decrease in vesicular murmur in the lungs. Abdomen was soft, depressible, with no palpable masses or visceromegaly; and lower limbs without oedema. During his stay in the emergency department, urgent laboratory tests were carried out, in which CRP was 107.4 mg/L and D-Dimer 3.52. A sample of Ag. Legionella/Neumococcus in urine was negative, as well as a sputum culture. A PA chest X-ray was requested with the following result: Condensation vs. mass in the lingula with left pleural effusion.

Given the clinical and test findings, it was decided to admit the patient to the Internal Medicine ward to study the lung mass. During his stay on the ward, the patient remained haemodynamically stable, afebrile and continued with scant haemoptotic sputum. A lung mass study was started and the following differential diagnoses were put forward. Given his history as a heavy smoker, the first thing to rule out was a pulmonary neoplasm; due to the elevated D-dimer and the characteristics of the mass, the presence of pulmonary thromboembolism and pulmonary infarction was assessed; and finally, the infectious aetiology of the mass. To begin the study, a complete blood test was requested with tumour markers (CEA and specific neuronal enolase) and thyroid hormones, which were normal, and serology was requested for tuberculosis, HAV, HBV, HCV, Toxoplasma, Cytomeglaovirus and HIV. Pending the results, the study continued with a diagnostic thoracentesis with the result of exudate, and a sample was sent for microbiology and pathological anatomy; Bronchoscopy showed an erythematous area around the entrance of the bronchus of the right upper lobe, from which samples were obtained for pathological anatomy and microbiology. Angio-CT of the pulmonary arteries ruled out thromboembolism at this level and the following result was obtained in the thoraco-abdominal-pelvic CT scan.

After this, serology results were obtained: Mantoux, HAV, HBV, HCV, Cytomegalovirus and toxoplasma were negative; however, the results were positive for HIV. In the thoracocentesis and bronchoscopy samples sent for analysis, Anatomical Pathology did not observe cells suggestive of neoplasia; however, Microbiology isolated Rhodocuccus equi in both samples, with abundant colonies, also present in sputum samples. Following the findings, tests were requested to determine the HIV status with the following results: HIV viral load: 95573 cop/ml. Absolute CD3+CD4+ T-cell lymphocytes: 225 cells/mcrL. CD4/CD8 ratio: 0.17 HLA-B*27.*35. Study of HIV resistance to retroviral drugs: No phenotypic resistance. Finally the patient was diagnosed with: - Pneumonia complicated with left pleural effusion due to Rhodococcus equi. -Stage B2 HIV infection. Antibiotic coverage with intravenous vancomycin, rifampicin and azithromycin was started, and antiretroviral treatment with Atripla was initiated. Given the poor clinical response and the persistence of radiological infiltrate and elevated acute phase reactants, vancomycin was discontinued and treatment was started with imipenem, maintaining the intravenous antibiotic regimen for two weeks, with a favourable clinical evolution. On discharge the patient was treated with Rifampicin and Azithromycin for 6 months, with resolution of symptoms and radiological improvement.
