A 70-year-old man with a history of pathological interest including AHT, type II DM with poor control, ischaemic-hypertensive heart disease with involvement of the anterior descending coronary artery which had been revascularised 7 years earlier with two drug-eluting stents, a traffic accident 10 months earlier with fracture of L1, severe aortic valve stenosis pending intervention at the time of admission. Neoplasia of the middle rectum operated on at another centre three months earlier, with colostomy. During admission he suffered severe sepsis, requiring admission to intensive care and placement of a central catheter. Since then, several admissions to the local regional hospital for decompensation of heart failure, with dyspnoea and fever attributed to respiratory and urinary infections that resolved satisfactorily with empirical treatment.

Current treatment: omeprazole, bisoprolol, simvastatin, glibenclamide, metformin/sitagliptin, ASA, zolpidem, candesartan/hydrochlorothiazide. He was transferred to our centre from his referral hospital, where he was admitted for acute pulmonary oedema, for surgical repair of severe aortic stenosis. Five days after admission he presented a fever peak of 38oC with no other symptoms and blood cultures were taken.

Laboratory tests showed acute deterioration of renal function, with creatinine 1.5 mg/dl, urea 105 mg/dl and estimated creatinine clearance of 47 ml/min, 21600 leukocytes with 95% neutrophils, procalcitonin 6.9 ng/ml, C-reactive protein 152 mg/L. The chest X-ray showed a normal cardiothoracic index, calcification of the aortic annulus and prominence of the aortic arch, without pulmonary interstitial involvement, condensation, effacement of costophrenic sinuses or other alterations. The microbiology laboratory reported the growth of Gram-positive cocci in blood cultures, identified as Staphylococcus aureus by MALDI-TOF. With this information, the patient was clinically assessed by the PROA team.

Differential diagnosis
We found a male patient with severe aortic stenosis, pending surgery, presenting fever and positive blood cultures for S. aureus with no other accompanying symptoms.

The differential diagnoses to consider in this patient with S. aureus bacteraemia are:
- Infective endocarditis. In favour of this diagnosis are the presence of S. aureus in 2 separate blood cultures, fever over 38oC, aortic valve involvement (predisposing cardiac anomaly). However, it has only 1 major and 2 minor criteria of the modified Duke criteria.
- Catheter infection. The patient has a cannulated peripheral line at the time of the febrile peak, with no erythema, oedema, palpable cord or induration, making this diagnosis very unlikely.
- Infectious or pyogenic spondylodiscitis.
Diagnosis to be considered when S. aureus is isolated in blood cultures. The patient is diabetic and has a neoplasm, both being predisposing factors. However, he does not present dorsal or lumbar pain and the clinical presentation is acute, which makes this diagnosis less likely.

Evolution
To clarify the differential diagnosis, echocardiography was performed due to the high clinical suspicion of endocarditis, informing us of the presence of a mobile, rounded, calcified image measuring 1.32 x 1.1 cm in the mitral valve. Transesophageal echocardiography was requested, which confirmed the existence of a mitral valve wart, with severe mitral valve insufficiency and a severely calcified aortic valve with reduced opening. TTE: mitral valve vegetation. The result of the echocardiography together with the blood cultures establishes the diagnosis of endocarditis, defined as meeting 2 major Duke criteria. Due to the absence of key symptoms and the clinical examination, other diagnoses are ruled out.

Given the risk of methicillin-resistant S. aureus, as it was a nosocomial infection and the patient's renal deterioration, with a glomerular filtration rate <50 ml/min, it was decided to start treatment with daptomycin at a dose of 10 mg/kg, ruling out the use of gentamicin in association with cloxacillin or vancomycin. The following day the antibiogram results confirmed the presence of methicillin-resistant S. aureus, sensitive to vancomycin (MIC of 1 mcg/mL) and daptomycin (MIC 0.25 mcg/mL).

Control blood cultures were taken every 48-72 hours due to persistent fever, and the first two rounds were positive. In the second round, six days after treatment, a new resistance study was requested, associating cloxacillin to the treatment until the results of the antibiogram were available. We were informed of the appearance of resistance to daptomycin with an MIC of 2 mcg/mL. On reviewing the analytical analysis, the patient's renal function improved (creatinine 0.9 mg/dl), which is why we changed to vancomycin, with an MIC of 1 mcg/mL. During treatment, the patient again suffered acute pulmonary oedema, was admitted to the ICU and underwent urgent valve replacement. The surgeon described the presence of endocarditis of the posterior mitral leaflet and part of the anteroposterior commissure, with an abscess at the level of the posterior annulus and involvement of the atrioventricular groove. After cleaning and excision of devitalised and infected tissues, the AV groove was repaired with Teflon band and the mitral and aortic valves were replaced with bioprostheses.

The valve was sent for culture and methicillin-resistant S. aureus grew, but was again sensitive to daptomycin. Treatment was maintained with vancomycin and she was transferred to the ward for continuity of care. He had a new febrile peak, S. aureus sensitive to daptomycin and vancomycin was isolated again and vancomycin was maintained for six weeks after the last positive blood culture adjusted to trough levels in blood (15-20 mcg/ml) and gentamicin (240 mg/day) for two weeks and rifampicin (600 mg/12 hours) for six weeks were associated, resolving the persistent bacteraemia and with good evolution of the patient, without renal or hepatic deterioration.

Final diagnosisInfective endocarditis on native mitral valve caused by MRSA, complicated by perivalvular abscess, acute renal failure and development of resistance to daptomycin.
