Reason for consultation
Diplopia and headache after traumatic brain injury (TBI).

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
The patient is a 41-year-old woman smoker with a history of thalassaemia, tension headache, overactive bladder unresponsive to anticholinergics, emotional instability of the personality and very demanding in consultation, who after suffering a traumatic brain injury at work presents headache associated with diplopia. At her employer's health insurance company she underwent a cranial CT scan, in which they detected a paresis of the VI cranial nerve and reported that the symptoms were not related to the accident suffered, which is why she was referred to her family doctor. A neurological examination was performed with no alterations, and observation and analgesia were recommended. After several consultations and due to the persistence of the symptoms after a month of evolution, it was decided to refer her to Neurology.

On her first visit to the Neurology outpatient clinic, in addition to the headaches and diplopia, which persisted 2 months after the TBI, the patient reported a decrease in visual acuity. The neurological examination did not reveal any limitation of eye movements, nor any other alterations in cranial pairs, strength and sensitivity of the limbs. Gait and balance were not altered either. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was requested, as well as a referral to ophthalmology, and the patient was discharged if the complementary tests were normal.

Diagnostic judgement: diplopia under study (post-traumatic diplopia, without being able to rule out its functional origin), chronic headache (tension headache + medication abuse).

Complementary tests and evolution: a cranial MRI was carried out, which revealed lesions in the supratentorial white matter with periventricular and juxtacortical demyelinating characteristics that suggest, as a first possibility, multiple sclerosis (MS) with acute activity. Angioresonance imaging of the supra-aortic trunks was also performed with no findings of interest. Following the results of the imaging test, the patient was seen again to explain the findings and to propose a lumbar puncture. The patient persisted with headaches, associated with generalised asthenia, with no other new findings.

Laboratory tests were also requested, including a complete blood count, biochemistry with renal and hepatic profile, TSH, ACE, vitamin B12 and folic acid, which was below normal limits, proteinogram, autoimmunity (ANA, ANCA, anticardiolipin/beta 2 microglobulin antibodies, anti-galnglioside antibodies) with no alterations, serology (HIV, HCV, HBV, LUES) with no immunisation against HBV. Immunisation against measles, rubella, mumps, EBV, HSV, VZZ.

She was assessed by ophthalmology who performed optical coherence tomography (OCT) with optic nerve involvement in 2 temporal sectors of the right eye and 4 temporal sectors in the left eye. Decreased macular ganglion cells in the left eye.
After performing a lumbar puncture, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with oligoclonal bands was confirmed, which, together with the findings described in the MRI, reinforced the diagnosis of MS, and the patient was referred to the Demyelinating Diseases Unit of our hospital.

A genetic test was requested to rule out CADASIL (Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Artheriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy), which was negative, and a new cranial and spinal MRI was requested. The cranial MRI was unchanged with respect to the previous one. The spinal MRI showed small focal spinal lesions at C3 and C4, which could correspond to foci of demyelination. Amantadine was indicated and teriflunomide was planned to be started in March 2020 as a disease-modifying drug.
At the time of this last visit, the patient had no diplopia, but the recurrent headaches persisted. A referral was made to the urology department due to the patient's ongoing incontinence.

During the diagnosis process, the patient attended our Primary Care consultation to renew her sick leave. During these consultations, we took the opportunity to support the patient in her diagnosis and to try to resolve any doubts that may have arisen after attending consultations with other specialists.
