A 45 year old patient from Mauritania, resident in Spain since 2002, who attended infectious diseases consultations due to the appearance of a "bultoma" on the sole of the left foot with progressive growth over a year of evolution. As epidemiological background of interest, the previous year he had returned to his country of origin for a month where he had been carrying out building work at home, barefoot, and the symptoms began later. He did not remember any trauma, stings or bites from animals in the area. No fever or other systemic symptoms. On examination, there was a rounded lump of 2 cm in diameter with a rubbery consistency, not adhering to deep layers, with no ulceration or associated signs of inflammation. There were no micro-organism entry sites or signs of arthritis. There were no other similar lumps on the skin or the presence of joint tophi. The following complementary tests were performed: blood tests: glucose 90 mg/dL, creatinine 0.83 mg/dL, biochemistry with normal liver function and ions, cholesterol 150 mg/dL, uric acid 10 mg/dL. Serology HIV, syphilis, Strongyloides, HCV negative, HBV serology compatible with past infection. X-ray of the affected foot: hallux valgus with no signs of osteomyelitis. Finally, dermatology was contacted to perform excision of the lesion without empirical treatment pending results.

Differential diagnosis
The differential diagnosis established in the case of subcutaneous lesions in patients from the tropics ranges from infectious causes typical of tropical medicine to infectious causes unrelated to the country of origin, such as syphilitic gummas, without forgetting non-infectious causes.
Infections: In this group, it is worth highlighting above all those caused by fungi that grow in warm and humid environments typical of the tropics. Subcutaneous mycoses include sporotrichosis, chromoblastomycosis, entomophthoromycosis and mycetoma. Lobomycosis and rhinosporidiosis fall into this classification; however, the former is located exclusively in South America, so it would not form part of the differential diagnosis of our patient, and in the latter case, the involvement of nasal mucous membranes is typical, so we will only refer to the first four.
These infections have in common that the aetiological agent is normally located in the soil and in fresh or dry plant material, such as splinters, thorns, etc... so the infection starts when the fungus is directly inoculated through trauma or when walking, which is why these infections mainly affect the lower limbs and are related to certain trades such as farmers, bricklayers... who are used to walking barefoot. Sporotrichosis is caused by the fungus Sporothrix sckenckii and after inoculation, after approximately 10 days it produces an indurated lesion known as a sporotrichotic chancre which grows progressively and drains spontaneously. The lesion may remain localised or may spread by lymphatic spread causing satellite lesions in the form of rubbery nodules and chronic verrucous plaques1 . Chromoblastomycosis is caused by hyphomycetes fungi of the family Dematiaceae (Phialophora verrucosa, Cladosporium carrionii and Fonsecae pedrosa being the most important) and are characterised by the formation of black colonies. The lesions they cause may be verrucous or granulomatous nodules, or they may be smooth, firm tumours that take one to two months to appear. Characteristic is the appearance of haemopurulent black dots on their surface. Lymphatic spread is rare, although other adjacent lesions may appear by autoinoculation.
Entomophthoromycosis encompasses diseases caused by the genera Basidiobolus and Conidiobolus. It is highly prevalent in tropical Africa and Southeast Asia. Both fungi cause an indolent infection with granulomatous changes in the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue without bone or systemic involvement. Individually, the disease caused by Basidiobolus ranarum is known as basidiobolomycosis. It presents as a solitary, hard, circumscribed mass usually located on the extremities. Clinically it can be confused with a soft tissue sarcoma.
Mycetoma is caused by different micro-organisms, namely
1) true fungi or eumycetoma and
2) aerobic actinomycetes, which are filamentous bacteria (Nocardia and Actinomyces) also called actinomycetoma.
Apart from this group of bacteria that cause mycetoma, other bacterial infections that can cause similar lesions such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis or Mycobacterium leprae must also be taken into account. Finally, with respect to protozoa, Leishmania spp would be another entity to take into account in our differential diagnosis. The cutaneous form can present as localised cutaneous, relapsing, diffuse cutaneous and mucocutaneous, although the latter is rare in Africa. In Mauritania, cutaneous leishmaniasis due to Leishmania major is endemic in the south, in the region of Aloun-el-Arouss, Nema and on the borders with Mali and Senegal. Leishmania lesions are caused by the inoculation of the protozoan through the bite of its vector Phlebotomus in Africa or Lutzomyia in South America. They are located in exposed areas such as the face and arms and their appearance seems to coincide in some areas with the rainy season, according to the vector's life cycle.
Non-infectious: In addition to neoplastic lesions (such as soft tissue sarcoma, Kaposi's sarcoma or warty carcinoma) or granulomatous reactions to foreign bodies, podoconiosis deserves special mention as a cause of lower limb lesions in developing countries. This is caused by an inflammatory reaction to mineral particles in the soil. These penetrate through the skin and are phagocytosed and transported by macrophages into the lymphatic system, causing inflammation and fibrosis of the vessels, obstruction of lymphatic drainage and eventually lymphoedema and elephantiasis. It is typically characterised by occurrence at high latitudes, where filarial transmission by mosquitoes does not occur.

Evolution
The lesion was biopsied and showed granulomatous inflammation with foreign body reaction and polymorphonuclear micro-abcesses, with no evidence of malignancy. Staining for microorganisms was performed and some granulomas distributed in a focal manner showed the presence of yeast-like structures with Splendore hoeppli phenomenon, positive by PAS and silver technique. All this was compatible with actinomycosis. Treatment with cotrimoxazole 800/160 mg 1 tablet every 12 hours associated with doxycycline 100 mg 1 tablet every 12 hours for 6 months. Subsequent visits showed a progressive decrease in the size of the lesion until its clinical resolution. Five months after treatment, an MRI of the foot showed a small fibrous lesion in the surgical site, which finally disappeared in a follow-up MRI performed one month after the end of antibiotic treatment.

Final diagnosis
Actinomycetoma

