Ángel is an 18 year old adolescent who attends the indicated prevention programme for adolescents and families, Soporte de Proyecto Hombre Madrid. Ángel's parents request help from the programme due to their son's drug use and the aggressive behaviour he displays inside (on several occasions he has assaulted both parents) and outside the home, as well as having been arrested for robbery with violence. At no time does the adolescent have any perception of a problem related to substance use or aggressive behaviour.

Description of the situation
The reason for the adolescent's request for attention was that we at the centre should ensure that he was not convicted and sent to prison. He wanted us to say that he is "good people, that he has never done anything wrong, given that the robbery was due to the fact that he didn't have any money at the time and that the woman didn't want to give it to him and he couldn't go home". In addition, we at the centre had to tell the judge that he doesn't use drugs, but it's another thing if he smokes his joints and we all keep it a secret, as neither the judge nor the staff at the centre had sufficient criteria to know that it was good for him.

He presents substance abuse, especially tobacco, alcohol and cannabis, he also presents compulsive cocaine consumption at weekends. The psychiatric symptomatology he manifests is enormously varied. As central and structural characteristics, fulfilling the generic criteria for personality disorders, he presents a large number of symptoms of cluster B personality disorders (antisocial, borderline, histrionic and narcissistic). In addition, he meets criteria for a body dysmorphic disorder (F 45.5) centred on the skin of his face. On the Derogatis SCL 90 - R he scores positively and very high in the area of obsession-compulsion and positively in hostility, paranoid ideation and psychoticism. In the Hare Psychopathy Scale he scores 34, classifying him within the psychopathic profile, obtaining 20 out of 22 possible points in the central traits of psychopathy and 14 out of 18 in the traits of instability.

At the time of starting the treatment process, the father presents depressive symptoms and self-injurious behaviour and the mother engages in the same behaviour in the presence of the psychologist responsible for the case. Angel's mother is in treatment and her psychiatrist states that she has symptoms of borderline personality disorder. Angel's sister is very anxious at the beginning of the process due, according to her, to the fear she feels towards her brother and how much he makes her suffer.

Ángel is in the 1st year of Bachillerato at a private school that "guarantees" a pass, he has repeated 2 years of ESO and has been to 6 or 7 schools, including two boarding schools for behavioural problems (he was expelled from both for violent behaviour and substance trafficking). He demands that his father do the homework he is sent to pass, and when he doesn't have it on time or doesn't mark it sufficiently, he humiliates and insults him. He also takes on jobs at the same time, which he does not last more than a couple of days, as he considers them unworthy of him at all times.

At home he maintains a tyrannical behaviour, he demands to be attended to immediately, to be bought branded clothes and that these are always clean and ironed, he asks to be bought expensive creams for his face at all times, as he "has pimples" (imperceptible to the rest). When he is not allowed to do so, he becomes aggressive, in fact he has assaulted all the members of his family on several occasions, and has also broken most of the furniture and doors in the house. He takes what he wants from anyone without asking permission and occupies other people's spaces without taking them into account.

His group of friends is very focused on delinquent behaviour and leisure activities linked to consumption. He has no friends at school and affective-sexual relationships are sporadic and in contexts of consumption. He practices martial arts and spends many hours going to the gym (which has to be private, he does not want to go to municipal sports facilities, according to him "they are for poor people").

Case history
The information presented about Angel comes from information provided by the family and by the adolescent himself. Angel is a child who has been described as hyperactive since childhood without any firm diagnosis, let alone neurological confirmation. According to his parents, he is a child with many behavioural problems at school. The mother points out that for a long time she has supported the idea that it is the teachers who have a grudge against her son and that, despite the fact that he has been undergoing psychological treatment since he was very young, no one has been able to treat him properly. The truth is that, according to the information provided, he showed symptoms of oppositional defiant disorder. Furthermore, it should be added that dyslexia was detected when he was in the third year of primary school, with all that this entails in terms of poor learning.

His mother has always had an overprotective relationship with Ángel, whom she has considered the best thing she has ever done in her life, mainly because "he is very handsome", and they have always been very close until he started taking drugs. On the other hand, throughout the child's childhood and due to the learning difficulties caused by the aforementioned dyslexia, the mother loses her patience at study times and assaults him on numerous occasions. As for the father, Angel despises him for not being able to stand up to him, demanding that he "behave like a man".

In the mother's family, there is a psychopathological background with a schizophrenic grandmother and a father with borderline personality disorder. In the paternal family, different cases of depressive disorders are reported. The relations between the parents are very deteriorated, the mother considers the father a pushover and continually threatens to leave home. On the other hand, the mother accompanies her husband everywhere and does not allow him to have individual interviews with the therapist in the case, as well as being very angry with the psychologist who treats her husband. Angel started taking drugs at the age of 13, occasionally using tobacco and alcohol. At the age of 14, he added cannabis to this consumption, smoking around 7 joints a day, maintaining this consumption until the age of 18. It was also at the age of 14 that he started to use amphetamines and synthetic drugs occasionally (less than once a month) and cocaine only once. From the age of 15, he uses synthetic drugs and cocaine in leisure contexts at weekends, and also increases his alcohol consumption. At the age of 16 he had his first alcoholic coma and spent a month using cocaine almost daily. At the time of starting the intervention (18 years old), Angel consumes a pack of cigarettes a day, 2 or 3 beers a day and 7 or 8 drinks every weekend night, he continues to consume 7 joints a day, in addition to consuming one or two MDMA pills and half a gram of cocaine at weekends. The same adolescent points out that it is from the moment he starts using that he begins to show criminal behaviour and at no time does he show remorse. He understands that he has the right to have what others have and if he doesn't have money, he takes it.

Intervention
When the family comes to the Support programme, they ask for help to prevent their son from going to prison and, by the way, to stop using drugs. There is no perception of further associated problems, even the mother continues to maintain her overprotective attitude and tries to justify her son's violent behaviour. The adolescent, as we have pointed out above, arrives with no perception of a problem and with the intention of demanding that we prevent him from going to prison without making any effort. Given this attitude and some family confrontations in front of the therapist, they are made aware that the problem is much more serious than they were aware of. Given the data obtained in the SCL 90 - R, the need for psychiatric care is indicated. They prescribed olanzapine 5 mg and indicated that it was a possible borderline personality disorder and ruled out ADHD. At different times during the treatment, hospitalisation was suggested, but Angel refused. The first task was to train parents to set rules, limits and sanctions for their child. They are also trained to resist threats and attempts of aggression. In the first applications of rules, mental health and police services had to be called in because of the adolescent's violent outbursts. This happens on several occasions throughout the intervention and whenever the emergency services arrive, the adolescent adapts to the situation and changes his or her attitude, avoiding hospitalisation. Therapeutic work was attempted in a peer group but due to the successive failure to comply with the rules, the dissimulation in the group at the beginning and the violent behaviour, this was abandoned. On the other hand, Angel does not accept the authority of female therapists and only accepts the authority of men who are capable of not backing down in the face of their threats. At one point he physically threatened a female psychologist and had to be temporarily expelled. Surprisingly, having made this threat in front of the parents, the mother refuses to accept the sanction. At the end of the sanction, they returned to the centre.

As a result of increased family pressure supported by the centre, the violent behaviour is reduced and a normalised relationship is resumed. They begin to respect the father when they are able to confront him, even kicking him out of the house. After three months, cannabis consumption is eliminated but is resumed two months later, although in smaller quantities. Alcohol consumption is sporadic and cocaine consumption disappears. The imposition of rules is enough to get him to attend classes and to keep a job as a security guard for months.

He maintained this attitude for some time until he was informed that as it was his first offence and he had no previous record, it was unlikely that he would be sent to prison. He resumes his violent behaviour and his parents maintain the normative structure. Ángel leaves the family home and asks for voluntary discharge. In this process the parents continue to attend the centre and make progress in terms of not giving in to emotional blackmail and the request to return home without any type of regulation. The family relationship improves, including with Angel who is away from home and who begins to admire his father for being able to stand up to him.

All this breaks down when the father and mother decide to let him back into the house as other relatives give Angel shelter and begin to question them. There are again differences between the parents and both give up the treatment with the intention of separating even though they recognise that the last 6 months have been the best they have had in years as they have been able to set rules and limits for Angel.

