Anamnesis
A 26-year-old woman, 11 weeks pregnant, consulted the dermatology emergency department because she had presented, for the last 4 days, painful punctate lesions of sudden onset on the tips of her fingers.
The patient reports that the lesions started on the fingers and later spread to the toes. She also associates joint discomfort. Days before the appearance of the lesions, she had a fever that subsided within 24 hours with paracetamol. After the development of the skin symptoms, she has not presented fever again. She did not present any other associated symptoms. The only personal history of interest was frigore urticaria. She had no history of photosensitivity.

Physical examination
Erythematous punctate papules, some with purpuric areas, not palpable, which do not disappear on finger pressure, well demarcated, not infiltrated, located on the distal tips of 20 fingers. Nails without alterations. Hands and feet normal colour and normal depth.

Complementary examinations
At first, the case appeared to be vasculitis, so peripheral blood tests were drawn, with no alterations except for an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (22 mm, reference values 7-15 mm). Immunity markers, ANA and cryoagglutinins, were negative, and HBV serology only indicated vaccination. A skin biopsy was performed with a 3-mm punch and the only findings were hyperkeratosis, parakeratosis and chronic perivascular inflammatory infiltrate in the superficial dermis.
Based on these results, the diagnosis of vasculitis was ruled out and, given the suspected diagnosis of glove and sock rash, serology for Ebstein Barr virus, parvovirus B19 and human enterovirus was performed. Parvovirus B19 serology was IgM positive on two occasions one week apart.

Diagnosis
Glove and sock exanthema due to parvovirus B19.

Treatment
Symptomatic: paracetamol 1 g every 8 hours. The gynaecology team prescribed treatment with ASA 100 mg every 24 hours.

Evolution
Initially the lesions were compatible with the development of vasculitis. The analytical markers, negative for autoimmunity and cryoagglutinins, led to a diagnosis of an infectious exanthema: papulopurpuric rash on glove and sock.
Given the suspicion of an infectious condition of these characteristics, serology was requested for EBV, enterovirus and parvovirus B19, with IgM positive for the latter on two occasions.
As this was a pregnant patient, we contacted the gynaecology department and began gynaecological follow-up for high-risk patients.
On successive gynaecological examinations, the patient had not developed anaemia or other clinical manifestations of acute Parvovirus infection. There were also no signs of foetal anaemia or its complications.
