10-month-old male infant from Comayagüela, Francisco Morazán, with a history reported by his mother of difficulty breathing and periorbital cyanosis, who took him to a peripheral clinic, from where he was referred to the Hospital Escuela Universitario. According to clinical data obtained from the case file, he was admitted to the paediatric emergency department with a history of one day of weakness, sudden abdominal pain, diarrhoea for one day, on multiple occasions, and vomiting of the same course.  On physical examination, he weighed 7.8 kg, heart rate was 30x min, respiratory rate 65 x min, pulse 30 x min, temperature 36 oC, Glasgow 7/15, hypoactive, hyporereactive, with poor suction, poor pulse quality, cyanotic, with distal coldness and capillary refill of five seconds; dehydrated, crying without tears, shallow, acidotic breathing, with abdominal distension and marbled skin. The patient was received in poor general condition, bradycardic, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was performed for 30 minutes, without improvement, and he was declared dead 55 minutes after admission. Clinical diagnoses were: acute diarrhoea with 10% dehydration, hypovolemic shock and suspected intestinal perforation.

A medico-legal autopsy was performed with no significant external findings on the corpse, nor in the macroscopic examination of the organs. On microscopic examination, histological sections of the heart showed myocardium with severe diffuse inflammatory infiltrate with the presence of lymphocytes, plasma cells, macrophages and myocardial fibres with degeneration, some of them containing Trypanosoma cruzi amastigotes. The lung showed mild oedema, the liver, spleen, intestine, brain and cerebellum showed vascular congestion. According to the histological findings described, the diagnosis and cause of death was acute chagasic myocarditis.

Acute Chagas myocarditis. Severe inflammatory infiltrate composed of lymphocytes, plasma cells and macrophages infiltrating and destroying myocardial fibres. Degenerated myocardial fibres containing the parasites. T. cruz amastigotes are seen in greater detail in a cardiac muscle cell.
