History, current disease and physical examination
A 48-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension, dyslipidaemia, obesity and ex-smoker. After fumigating for approximately 3 continuous hours with organophosphates without any protection, he suddenly presented with intense dyspnoea, diaphoresis and intense oppressive central thoracic pain radiating to both upper limbs; his family described that he went home after the onset of the symptoms with twitching in the upper limbs, trembling in both hands and inability to speak due to abundant salivation and bronchorrhoea. His family took him to the local hospital. On arrival he presented cardiorespiratory arrest in VF rhythm, resuscitation manoeuvres were started, and after 5 shocks the rhythm was reversed, but the patient was still haemodynamically unstable with significant respiratory insufficiency, so vasoactive support and orotracheal intubation were started.
After 45 minutes of resuscitation manoeuvres, ECG showed complete AV block with escape rhythm at 45 bpm and ST elevation in II-III-aVF, from V3 to V6 and V3R-V4R, and specular decrease in I-aVL-V1-V2. Fibrinolysis was decided as there was no Haemodynamics Unit at the centre and CORECAM (Castilla la Mancha Infarction Code) was activated. Despite NKT, the patient persisted with ST elevation and was referred for rescue PTCA.

Physical examination: relaxed sedentary patient, mechanically ventilated and requiring high doses of vasoactive drugs. BP 70/40, HR 30 bpm, RR 20, afebrile, SaO2 100% MV. Head and neck: miosis and abundant sialorrhoea. Cardiac auscultation: bradycardic, rhythmic and regular. Lung fields with inspiratory and expiratory wheezing, crackling rales in both bases and abundant mobilisation of secretions. Abdomen globular, soft, depressible, not assessable. Extremities with fasciculations and generalised myoclonus.

Complementary tests
CBC: leukocytes 22,300 with adequate differential count, Hb 14.3, haematocrit 43%, platelets 221,000, Act. PT 83%, fibrinogen 258, glucose 513 mg/dl, urea 43, creatinine 1.6, total protein: 6.7, GOT 832, GPT 578, LDH 1257, amylase 117. ʟʟ Ions: Na 134, K 2.8, Cl 101, Ca 7.7, P 12.8, Mg 1.3. ʟʟʟ Myocardial injury markers at 8 hours after onset CPK 2813, CK MB 264 and TnI 43.4. Peak enzyme at 24 hours CPK 6586, CK MB >304 and TnI >76. ʟʟʟ Blood gases: PH 7.01, PCO2 38, PO2 261, HCO3 12.6, lactic acid 92.
Electrocardiogram before entering the haemodynamics room: unchanged with respect to that described prior to fibrinolysis.
Chest X-ray: cardiothoracic index at the high limit of normality. Interstitial infiltrate in both lower fields.
Transthoracic echocardiogram (vasoactive support and mechanical ventilation): non-dilated LV, with inferoposterior akinesia and mid-apical septal, without signs of valvulopathy or mechanical complications, with LVEF of 42%.


Clinical course
The patient was admitted directly to the haemodynamics ward. Prior to coronary angiography, a transient intravenous pacemaker was implanted via the right femoral vein and balloon counterpulsation via the left femoral artery. Coronary angiography showed right dominance, LMCA without lesions, LAD with parietal irregularities without significant stenosis, hypodeveloped Cx without stenosis and DC with complicated plaque and associated thrombus in the proximal region, distal vessel permeable with distal flow Timi 2-3 (video 1). Angioplasty guide wire is passed to distal DC and direct stent implantation in proximal DC up to the ostium; after which she presents no-reflow phenomenon that remits after intracoronary vasodilators. In ECG after rescue PTCA sinus rhythm at 105 bpm, QS in II-III-aVF, transition from QRS V1 to V2 with high R in V2 and V3, persistent ST alterations (ST elevation in II-III-aVF and decrease in I-aVL-V1-V2), AV block grade I with PR 220 msec. In view of the fact that his acute coronary symptoms had resolved and that the patient had symptoms (dyspnoea, abundant salivation, bronchorrhoea, fasciculations, hand tremor), signs (miosis, sialorrhoea, bronchospasm, bronchorrhoea, bradycardia, AV block, myoclonias) and analytical findings (leukocytosis, hyperglycaemia, renal failure, hypokalaemia, hyperphosphataemia, hypomagnesaemia, metabolic acidosis) suggestive of organophosphate poisoning; Given the duration of cardiorespiratory arrest, it was decided to initiate hypothermia, atropinisation, sodium bicarbonate, magnesium sulphate, as well as haemodynamic and ventilatory support. Despite maintaining adequate haemodynamic and ventilatory support and achieving correction of metabolic acidosis, the patient progressed to progressive deterioration, renal failure requiring continuous haemodiafiltration, signs of hepatotoxicity and systemic inflammatory response syndrome in the first 48 hours. ECG after 48 hours of evolution in sinus rhythm at 74 bpm, QS in II-III-aVF, high R in V2 and V3, slight ST elevation in II-III-aVF and slight decrease in I-aVLV1- V2), AV block grade I with PR 220 msec. Two weeks after being in the ICU, he presented even more neurological deterioration, becoming spastic, with hyper-reactivity of tendon reflexes, signs of dysautonomia and coldness of the extremities. After a torpid evolution and presenting, among other complications typical of prolonged admission to the ICU, respiratory distress syndrome and septic shock due to Pseudomona, the patient died after 48 days in the ICU.

Diagnosis
Cardiorespiratory arrest witnessed in ventricular fibrillation. Prolonged advanced cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
Severe organophosphate poisoning.
Acute coronary syndrome with ST-elevation of the inferior ST and RV. Fibrinolysis without reperfusion criteria + rescue PTCA in proximal DC.
Acute renal failure. Continuous venovenous haemodiafiltration.
Acute hepatitis of probable mixed toxic/ischaemic origin.
Adult respiratory distress syndrome.
Septic shock due to Pseudomona aeruginosa.
Exitus.
