A 34-year-old man diagnosed two months earlier with HIV infection who at the time of diagnosis had a CD4+ lymphocyte count of 3 cells/μL and a plasma viral load (PVL) of 31,000 copies/ml. He started antiretroviral therapy (ART) with efavirenz 600 mg/24 h o.v., emtricitabine 200 mg/24 h o.v. and tenofovir 200 mg/24 h o.v., One and a half months after starting ART, he was admitted for fever (38-39°C), predominantly in the evening, with chills, sweating, asthenia, severe wasting and general malaise of three weeks' duration. Physical examination revealed extreme thinness (BMI: 17.6), several reddish-pinkish, slightly raised skin-mucous lesions on the palate, left shoulder and dorsal region of the foot suggestive of Kaposi's sarcoma, which the patient refused to biopsy. His temperature was 38.7o C and he was mildly tachypneic at rest, with an oxygen saturation of 96% while breathing room air. A 6-centimetre splenomegaly was palpable, painless and of a soft consistency, small lymphadenopathies, round and painless, in both inguinal regions, as well as in the left supraclavicular and right submandibular regions. Laboratory tests showed pancytopenia (Hb 9.1 mg/dL, leukocytes 2,100 cells/μl and platelets 106,000 cells/ul), hypoproteinaemia (6.1 mg/dL), LDH: 384 U/L, alkaline phosphatase: 856 U/L and C-reactive protein: 73 mg/L. CD4+ lymphocyte count was 156 CD4+ cells/μL and CVP 456 copies/ml. Blood cultures were negative. Mantoux test was negative. Chest X-ray showed a bilateral reticulonodular infiltrate with right apical predominance. Thoracic-abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed multiple mediastinal, hilar, supraclavicular and infradiaphragmatic adenopathies and a large spleen with abundant focal lesions, those larger than three centimetres in diameter, of liquid or slightly higher density.

Differential diagnosis
As this was a profoundly immunosuppressed patient with generalised lymphadenopathy and cystic splenic lesions, who had recently started ART, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) was suspected and a broad differential diagnosis was considered, including opportunistic infections and neoplasms as the most likely aetiologies.

Evolution
Treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids (prednisone at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day) was started for 10 days and ART was maintained, resulting in partial remission of fever. Corticosteroids were administered due to the clinical situation despite being contraindicated because of lesions suggestive of Kaposi's sarcoma. Following the CT findings, a laparotomy with splenectomy and intraoperative liver and splenic biopsies were performed. Macroscopically, the spleen measured 22x16x6 centimetres, weighed 1,026 g, had a violaceous polylobulated surface and on serial sections showed nodular lesions of cystic appearance with areas of whitish colouring and a lumpy appearance, measuring 2 to 4 centimetres. In a spleen sample sent from the operating theatre and in another sputum sample collected five days earlier, acid-fast bacilli were visualised by Ziehl-Nielsen staining. In the sputum sample, mycobacterial culture in Lowenstein's medium was positive and nucleic acid amplification (PCR) for Mycobacterium tuberculosis was negative. Pathological examination of spleen and liver specimens showed extensive areas of necrosis with calcifications and diffuse granulomatous inflammation. Pneumocystis jirovecii was also visualised by Grocott's methenamine silver stain and acid-fast bacilli by Ziehl-Nielsen stain. In view of the suspicion of a disseminated infection by a non-tuberculous mycobacterium, it was decided to treat as Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), being the most frequent and the one with the highest morbidity and mortality in HIV-infected patients, and rifabutin, 300 mg/24 h v.o., was administered, azithromycin, 500 mg/24 h o.v., (clarithromycin was not administered because it interacts with efavirenz) and ethambutol, 1200 mg/24 h o.v. Days later MAC was identified by MAC nucleic acid hybridisation in sputum and spleen samples. Simultaneously, treatment of hepatosplenic P. jirovecii infection was started with sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim, 800/160 mg/12 h i.v. for 21 days, followed by prophylactic treatment with 160/800 mg 3 times a week i.v. The patient progressed favourably with disappearance of fever and improvement of general condition.

Final diagnosis
Extrapulmonary pneumocystosis (hepatosplenic). Disseminated infection by Mycobacterium avium complex. Immune reconstitution syndrome (IRRS).
