This is a 25 year old woman, born and resident in Barcelona, single, who is admitted to the Dual Pathology Unit referred by her referral psychiatrist (CAS), to stop the consumption of cannabis and alcohol and for psychopathological stabilisation.

REASON FOR CONSULTATION
Somatic:
No AMC.
Burn injuries in the internal area of both EESS (boiling water).
One miscarriage at the age of 21 (ectopic pregnancy).

Psychiatric history:
First contact with mental health at age 18 for anxious symptomatology in relation to difficulties in fulfilling household chores.
Diagnosed with OCD and major depressive disorder three years ago, following the death of her brother. Paroxetine 60 mg/day, pregabalin 300mg/day and benzodiazepines. He stopped treatment due to improvement.
One admission in November 2009 for suicidal ideation and obsessive thoughts (two months ago).

PERSONAL HISTORY
Tobacco: At the age of 11. Current consumption 12 cigarettes/day.
Cannabis: Beginning at the age of 12, pattern of abuse, without interruption and progressive up to the current consumption of 20 joints/day.
Alcohol: From age 14, high alcoholic drinks. Weekends (heavy binge drinking), irregular pattern of consumption with periods of higher/lower consumption. Maximum abstinence interval 2 months last summer. Since then daily consumption of 1 litre of wine/day.
Cocaine: at the age of 18, endonasally. Period of abstinence of 1 year following the death of her brother. Relapsed a year and a half ago, with 6 months abstinence before current admission.
LSD: occasional, at the age of 18.
GHB (liquid ecstasy): at the age of 18, weekend use, remission 5 years ago.

TOXICOLOGICAL HISTORY
Polydrug addict brother (heroin and cocaine by parenteral route, BZD, alcohol), died at 27 years of age from cardiorespiratory arrest in the presence of the patient. Probable co-morbid affective disorder.
Paternal uncle with a history of cocaine and heroin use, currently in sustained remission.
Father with alcohol dependence disorder.
Bipolar disorder in paternal aunt.

FAMILY HISTORY
Coinciding with the abandonment of the pharmacological treatment she had started a year and a half earlier, she presented an increase in compulsive checking behaviours (gas, cleaning), and a need for order and symmetry, accompanied by a decrease in mood, episodes of crying and thoughts related to the death of her brother, her own death and unstructured suicidal ideation, all of this progressively over the course of two months. Her psychiatrist at the CAS referred her to stop the use of cannabis and alcohol and for psychopathological stabilisation.

CURRENT ILLNESS
She is the fifth of 6 siblings, all boys. yChildhood: Normal psychomotor development, at school she was "restless". Conflictual family environment (alcoholic father). Tendency to ruminative thinking. Low academic performance. Low level of schooling. Sociability.
Adolescence: On two occasions he has lived outside the original family nucleus. Began cocaine use with first partner at 18 years of age. First contact with mental health. Met current boyfriend 5 years ago. Occasional low-skilled work. Currently lives with her mother, brother and his partner.
Death of brother in 2007, at home (addicted to heroin and cocaine, joints. Possible co-morbid affective disorder.

PSYCHOBIOGRAPHY
Physical examination: Skin lesions in EESS. No other noteworthy findings.
Psychopathological examination: Conscious and self and allopsychically oriented. Physical appearance preserved. Spontaneous, coherent speech. Subjectively and objectively calm. Ruminative thoughts about the death of her brother. Rituals of checking (gas, under the bed) and cleanliness and symmetry. No delusional ideation of any kind. Denies thoughts of death or suicidal ideation at admission.
Reactive mood, mixed mood, with oscillations ranging from sadness and crying to irritability, described as "depression". Floating anxiety. Impulsivity. Sleep and appetite preserved.
No alterations in psychomotor skills or sensory perception.

PSYCHOPATHOLOGICAL EXAMINATION
General analyses: No biochemical or hydroelectrolytic alterations of note. Negative serologies.
Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory-II: High scores in phobic/avoidant, dependent, compulsive/rigid traits.
SCID-II : High score for obsessive and dependent traits. Borderline traits.
OCI-R : High score for hoarding behaviours, need for order, checking.

E. COMPLEMENTARY
Diagnostic orientation:
Cannabis dependence disorder.
Alcohol dependence disorder.
Obsessive compulsive disorder?

Treatment:
Clomipramine 75mg/day (in ascending doses).
B-complex vitamin supplements
Clonazepam 1.5mg/day
Quetiapine 100mg/day

DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT
During admission, inappropriate behaviour, excessive familiarity and "compassionate" attitude towards other patients. Inappropriate affection "cries for other sick people".
He presents paroxysms of psychophysical anxiety (feeling of suffocation, palpitations) which sometimes subside with verbal restraint.
As the days go by, he mobilises the other patients (they come to the infirmary to say that "he is crying in the courtyard"). Affective ambivalence, incontinence. 
Changes in treatment with introduction of valproate but clomipramine is maintained. Quetiapine.
Begins behaviour of excessive familiarity and sexual approaches with another patient. Persists in puerile behaviour, teasing, unmotivated laughter. She asks to be left in bed because she has a fever (36o).
Frank manic picture with pseudomania and disjointed speech, bizarre behaviour, laughter, insults, facial tics, muscular rigidity.
Mechanical and pharmacological containment with olanzapine IM. Treatment with clomipramine was discontinued.

COURSE AND EVOLUTION
Discontinuation of clomipramine and adjustment of the dose of valproate to 1,200mg/day.
Explains progressive insomnia until the moment of decompensation. Feeling of irritability and verbal aggressiveness towards peers.
Episodes that had happened before, always with previous sensation of fever.
Progressive improvement until reaching euthymia.
Psychopathological stabilisation
Discharge
Alcohol dependence disorder
Cannabis dependence disorder
Obsessive compulsive disorder
Bipolar disorder most recent manic episode
Personality disorder (obsessive, histrionic, borderline, dependent)

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS
Cannabis dependence disorder
Alcohol dependence disorder
Bipolar disorder type I, most recent manic episode
Obsessive personality disorder

Treatment at discharge:
Valproate 1,200mg/day
Olanzapine 10mg
Antabus 1c./day

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES
