Male aged 2 years and 6 months. Previously healthy. Well nourished. Good growth. Good neuropsychic development. Schooled. Received the corresponding vaccinations according to the country's Scheme Certificate. He has presented repeated skin infections diagnosed as impetigo secondary to insect bites and scratching, these infections were treated with antibiotic therapy.

His current illness began 3 days prior to admission with fever up to 39.7oC, partial refusal of food, weakness and tendency to sleep. Partial seizure with secondary generalisation. Consultation and admission with diagnosis of probable central nervous system (CNS) infection. On examination: soporous, febrile, haemoglobin O2 saturation (SatO2) measured with pulse oximeter of 98% with free flow mask. No polypnoea, no respiratory function. Good bilateral air entry, no rales. Heart rate 130cpm, well beat sounds without murmurs. Pulses present. Normotensive. Well perfused. Numerous impetiginised lesions on lower limbs predominantly on legs, some in crusted stage, others melisseria and scars of previous ones. Psychoneuromucular, no meningeal signs, tone and strength preserved, no motor deficits. Osteotendinous reflexes present and symmetrical in all four limbs. Initial laboratory tests: haemoglobin (Hb) 12.7 g/dL, leukocytosis (WBC) 14,100 elements/mm3, 78% polymorphonuclear (PMN), platelets 257,000 elements/mm3. C-reactive protein (CRP) 51.3 mg/l. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF): WBC 50 /mm3 (mostly PMN), normal protein and glucuroraxia. Bacteriological study of CSF and investigation of viral agents of meningoencephalitis by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was requested, and an electroencephalogram (EEG) was performed within 48 hours of onset of the disease, which was reported as normal. Hospitalised in the paediatric ward, treatment was started with ceftriaxone and acyclovir at the usual doses. He continued to be sleepy, irritable, tachycardia and dereprosy. New lesions on palms and soles were added and due to neurological compromise he was admitted to intermediate care (CIP). Examination on admission: Glasgow Scale (GSC) 15, irritable, SatO297% on air. Apyretic, pustular indurated lesion on the anterior aspect of the right hemithorax, rest of the lesions already mentioned. Sinus tachycardia 167 bpm, no murmurs, normotensive, full pulses, recovery time (RT) less than 2 seconds. Good air entry, no rales. No neck or trunk rigidity. No motor deficit. The treatment started was maintained with the addition of vancomycin. Repeated blood tests showed an increase in CRP264 mg/dl, leukocytosis 4,600 elements/mm3, plateletopenia 103,000 elements/mm3, mobilisation of liver enzymes: TGO 87 U/L, TGP 88 U/L. Normal glomerular renal function. Skin lesion and blood cultures showed sensitive Staphylococcus aureusmeticillinus (SAMS), CSF culture and PCR for Herpes virus were negative.

A few hours after admission, an intense systolic murmur was noted in the mesocardium. In view of the diagnosis of probable infective endocarditis with encephalic embolisation, a Doppler echocardiogram was performed, which showed "thickening of both leaflets in the mitral valve with a small image adhering to the septal leaflet compatible with vegetation. Mild to moderate mitral insufficiency. Good systolic function". Encephalic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shows: "lesions compatible with septic embolism with moderate perilesional oedema". Other emboligenic foci were ruled out. Treatment was maintained with vancomycin and gentamicin in therapeutic range. The paediatric cardiac surgery team was consulted and initially maintained a wait-and-see attitude regarding the surgical approach, with serial controls with echocardiography. The patient was placed on apyrexia on the 17th day of treatment. Echocardiograms showed worsening mitral insufficiency and persistent vegetations. He repeated encephalic embolisation with left hemiplegia and a new MRI was performed which confirmed ischaemic infarction in the putamen area. After a joint assessment with the neuropaediatrician and heart surgeons, cardiac surgery was performed to clean the valve, attempting to repair it with pericardium, which failed, leaving the patient with a mechanical valve and hypocoagulation. Atrioventricular block requiring corticoids and external pacemaker for 15 days, later returning to sinus rhythm. Good evolution, with improvement of haemiparesis with physiotherapy.
