Reason for consultation
A 6 year old girl came with her parents for consultation with fever, cough and mucus of four days of evolution treated with physical measures and antipyretics without clinical improvement. After a complete examination with pathological respiratory auscultation and a normal chest X-ray, she was treated with a dose of Azithromycin, suspecting atypical pneumonia, which presumably improved. Three months later, having been asymptomatic until then, she presented with skin lesions on the lateral regions of the trunk, buttocks and thighs, which we began to study with the help of complementary tests.

Individual approach
The only personal history of interest was atopic dermatitis, she was correctly vaccinated and there were no known drug allergies. She had not had any trips of interest nor had she had any relations with animals other than those she had already experienced. There was no family history of interest.
In May the patient consulted for a fever of four days' evolution, cough and mucus which, after auscultation of the lungs with added crackles, we decided to request a chest X-ray, as there were no condensations, we considered possible atypical pneumonia and prescribed Azithromycin for three days, improving in 48 hours.
Three months later, the patient presented with polymorphous lesions of papules and erythematous and oedematous plaques as well as vesicles and a pathognomonic "bull's eye" lesion (with three concentric rings and sometimes a central haemorrhagic vesicle). They were pruritic but there were no signs of impetiginisation or other complications, we prescribed Dexchlorpheniramine to improve the pruritus and indicated to monitor the evolution.
A few days later, her mother came to the clinic concerned because the lesions were spreading, mainly on the buttocks and thighs, which were asymptomatic for the child. We decided to remain expectant and to check the patient in a few weeks.
The girl went to the scheduled appointment with both parents presenting the same lesions, without pruritus as she was using the prescribed antihistamine treatment. Her parents, out of concern and uncertainty, asked us for additional tests and another assessment to clarify the cause of the lesions. We believed the clinical diagnosis to be Erythema multiforme minor, as she also had a pathognomonic lesion, but in view of this concern we requested tests and referred her to a specialist.
Additional tests included a complete blood count, biochemistry and parameters of acute phase reactants in range and serology with positive IgM for Mycoplasma pneumoniae, with no other findings. The patient was referred to the dermatology department, who suggested the use of Azithromycin and/or Acyclovir, which in principle we did not follow; we did request a new blood test and observed a quadrupling of the titration, concluding that it was a cutaneous reaction induced by Mycoplasma.
After a few weeks and with repeated outbreaks of skin lesions, the parents remained uneasy and demanded curative treatment.

Family and community approach
Regarding their family structure, they form a nuclear family with close relatives (her parents, her older brother and she live at home) without any stressful life events of note. Nurturing family style, with family togetherness, nurturing and adapting to the needs and stimulating interests of their pre-school and school-age children. We can classify according to Duvall's model: stage of consolidation and opening IV of the family life cycle.

Clinical judgement
Today there is controversy as to the group of lesions in which we classify our case: Erythema Multiforme Minor (EMm). Most authors continue to classify Erythema Multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN) as different expressions of the same clinicopathological entity, differentiating according to extension, severity and possible triggering factor (virus vs. drugs). EMM are acute, recurrent or non-recurrent, self-limited lesions that have no or minimal mucosal involvement and heal without sequelae, usually in 2-4 weeks, although they can sometimes become chronic, as in our case, which in particular would be Chronic Erythema Multiforme Minor. EMMajor also heals without sequelae but can produce acute outbreaks and mucosal involvement. JSS are acute, non-self-limiting lesions that also include visceral manifestations. Finally, NET is progressive, triggered by drugs and also affects internal organs with a fulminant course.
Diagnosis is mainly clinical combined with histological if necessary. Laboratory findings in minor MS are normal; in major MS there may be an increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate, moderate leukocytosis and slightly increased transaminases; and in JSS and NET there is fever and laboratory findings will depend on the degree of internal organ involvement.

Action plan
After diagnosis and having treated the Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection months ago, and now proposing to improve the dermatological symptoms, we explain to the parents that there is no consensus in the literature on the management of chronic EMminoritis, and even less so in the paediatric age group. There is controversy regarding the use of systemic corticosteroids; it has not been proven that they shorten the duration of the disease and they could be associated with an increase in the frequency of outbreaks and their chronicity. We suggest expectancy.
Two weeks later, with persistent lesions, the parents decided to try corticosteroid treatment. Prednisone was prescribed at a dose of 1mg/kg/day during the outbreaks until the lesions disappeared, at which point the dose was reduced.

Evolution
The girl and her parents continued to visit the clinic with mild skin outbreaks every 10-15 days.
In the middle of winter, it was decided to treat only the pruritus again. The clinical course lasted 9 to 10 months until spontaneous remission.
