Miguel is a patient who started his treatment a few months ago at the Dual Pathology Centre, a hospital resource in which the first part of the course of treatment is in isolation, which becomes progressively less rigid as the days go by. Miguel is 24 years old, works as a salesman for a telephone company and has completed primary school. He was referred from an outpatient care centre specialising in dependency in order to follow a treatment programme for his cocaine and cannabis dependency, as well as to assess the possible existence of dual pathology, as they detect a certain suspicion and susceptibility, always in the context of the consumption of both substances. This is a voluntary admission motivated by the patient's assessment of the lack of control over consumption. He started using cannabis at the age of twelve, presenting abuse criteria from the beginning. At the age of 15, his consumption increased to 10-12 joints a day, a consumption that has continued until the present day. Intranasal cocaine use since the age of 18 with a weekend pattern. At the age of 22 he changed the pattern, increasing the frequency and quantity of use. Since February 2005 he has been in treatment in an outpatient facility. At that time he started outpatient treatment in a therapeutic community where he requested voluntary discharge in one week. He also consumes alcohol occasionally, sporadically in association with other substances. His treatment on admission consisted of aripiprazole 15 mg/day and gabapentin 600 mg/day. Other antecedents were a polytraumatism due to a traffic accident three years ago (without TBI) and pulmonary tuberculosis resolved after treatment two years ago. Nasal septum injury due to cocaine inhalation.
 Psychopathological examination during admission shows no significant variations: He was conscious, oriented in time, space and person. Approachable and cooperative, although somewhat restless. Fluent and coherent speech. No sensory-perceptual alterations, nor alterations in the form or content of thought or in the sphere of the self. Euthymic and emotionally reactive, although with floating anxiety. No cognitive alterations that impair his capacity for judgement. Minimises the consequences of consumption, with fantasies of control over consumption. Partial awareness of illness. No self- or heteroaggressive ideation. Limited capacity for introspection. Empathic contact.

Clinical judgement
Mental and behavioural disorders due to cannabis use (F14.2).

Evolution
Miguel adapted to the unit, presenting no problems with his peers or the team. He started participating in the therapies correctly, however he continued with fantasies about controlling his consumption, being ambivalent about his decision to give up cannabis. In the last week there was a progressive increase in anxiety, despite the adjustment of the pharmacological treatment to try to counteract it. Finally, on the tenth day, he repeatedly expressed his decision to leave the centre. She claims that she prefers her mother's food to that of the hospital. He understands the consequences of his discharge but does not admit to requesting it in order to continue with his consumption. The absence of productive psychopathology during admission leads us to think that the suspicion and other psychopathological alterations suspected by the outpatient centre may be due solely to cannabis use and not to an underlying pathology. The patient is discharged voluntarily.
