An 84-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency department with a cough of one week's duration, associated with dyspnoea and haemoptotic expectoration since the previous day, the reason for her consultation. His personal history included arterial hypertension, hyperthyroidism with endothoracic goitre and non-anticoagulated atrial fibrillation. Tuberculosis in childhood with chronic bronchiectasis and left lower lobectomy in 2001. No respiratory function studies are available. In June 2008 he presented with recurrent pericardial effusion requiring pericardiocentesis for cardiac tamponade, with a diagnosis of probable tuberculous pericarditis based on clinical, pericardial fluid biochemistry with lymphocytic pleocytosis, elevated ADA and LDH and MRI findings. Bacterial cultures were negative but no mycobacterial studies were performed.

Correct treatment was completed with four drugs rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol for 2 months, followed by rifampicin and isoniazid for six months, without clinical relapse, although with persistence of residual lateral effusion. Currently on treatment with: levothyroxine 175 mcg, sertraline 50 mg, furosemide 40 mg, omeprazole 20 mg, lormetazepam 2 mg, metamizole 575 mg, ASA 100mg.

The patient presented with a cough of one week's evolution together with haemoptotic expectoration (up to 14 spoonfuls/day) in the last 24 hours, accompanied by dyspnoea without fever or dysthermic sensation. No semiology of heart failure. No history of respiratory infections in the last year, no weight loss or other associated symptoms. Examination on arrival at the ED revealed: no fever, tachypnoea at 30 breaths/minute, with a baseline oxygen saturation of 85%. He presented tachycardia with atrial fibrillation at 140 systoles per minute and blood pressure of 120/80 mmHg. Auscultation showed generalised hypoventilation in the left hemithorax, rhonchi and scattered subcrepitant sounds in both lung fields with arrhythmic cardiac tones without murmurs or extratonos. There was no jugular ingurgitation, hepatomegaly or oedema in the lower limbs.

Among the complementary tests performed, the chest X-ray showed opacity in the left hemithorax due to probable pleural effusion plus an ipsilateral atelectasis component without displacement of the trachea and mediastinum. Emergency laboratory tests showed a deterioration of renal function with creatinine of 2.9 mg/dl and urea of 138 mg/dl. Acute phase reactants were elevated with a C-reactive protein (CRP) of 200 mg/l and 31,000 leukocytes (96% PMN). The coagulation study showed an INR of 1.3. The rest of the blood tests showed values within the normal range. A diagnostic thoracentesis was performed, obtaining a chocolate-coloured fluid, and samples were sent to microbiology and biochemistry. Pleural fluid (PF) biochemistry showed 120,000 cells, 90% PMN, LDH 60,000 mU/mL, glucose 2.03 g/l, protein 31.4 g/l, and ADA 15 mU/mL, pH was not determined. Gram and Ziehl-Neelsen stain of pleural fluid (LP) were negative. Serial cultures of bacteria and mycobacteria in sputum were repeated and empirical antibiotherapy with piperacillin-tazobactam was started.

Given the suspected diagnosis of empyema, based on the macroscopic characteristics of the LP, it was decided to place an endothoracic drainage, which was attempted twice without success, for which reason a CT scan of the chest was requested. No pleural effusion was found, and therefore empyema, but instead an abscess was observed in the left lower lobe, with thickened, hypercapillary and anfractuous walls measuring 67x50x70mm with liquefied contents and bubbles inside, corresponding to the liquid drained by thoracentesis. He also presented complete atelectasis of the lingula and left lower lobe, with a ground-glass pattern in the areas of aerated lung accompanied by centrilobular nodules in the left apex. After a chest CT scan, a diagnosis of chronic bronchiectasis infection with a micronodular pattern complicated by abscess in the left lower lobe was established.

Differential diagnosis
We are dealing with a patient with a diagnosis of chronic bronchiectasis secondary to previous pulmonary TB, who was admitted with signs of superinfection and a lung abscess was observed in the chest CT scan. Given this condition, a differential diagnosis should be made with the main aetiological agents in order to choose an appropriate empirical antibiotic treatment. The most common cause of lung abscess is anaerobic bacteria: Peptostreptococcus, Prevotella, Bacteroides and Fusobacterium spp. from the patient's mouth. Other germs causing lung abscess are Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomona aeruginosa, enterobacteria (Klebsiella sp. most frequent), Legionella and Haemophilus influenzae spp. These frequently cause bronchiectasis superinfection, the first two being common in patients with frequent superinfections and who have previously received cycles of antibiotherapy. Other microorganisms involved, although less common, are bacteria of the order Actinomycetales such as Nocardia, Actinomyces spp. And, given the presence of an associated micronodular pattern, we must consider the possibility of tuberculous and non-tuberculous mycobacteria. In addition to bacteria, it is important to include in the differential diagnosis fungal infections such as Aspergillus, Coccidioides, Histoplasma, Blastomyces, Cryptococcus, Mucor and Pneumocystis spp. In the absence of microbiological isolation, it is decided to perform bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) for sampling, sending bacterial and mycobacterial cultures of the BAL.

Evolution
Given the suspicion of superinfection of chronic bronchiectasis and formation of secondary lung abscess, infection by anaerobic bacteria was considered the most likely cause. After two weeks of empirical treatment with piperacillin-tazobactam with adequate clinical response, the patient was discharged with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid at a dose of 875/125 mg every 8 hours. Ten days after discharge, the patient was readmitted for a new episode of dyspnoea, cough and haemoptotic expectoration. The chest X-ray showed no radiological progression of the process. She was admitted and, during hospitalisation on the ward, the results of the mycobacterial cultures obtained from sputum and ABL samples were received.

Final diagnosis
In the mycobacterial culture obtained from sputum, M. intracellulare grew in two of two cultures obtained on different days, with a growth time of less than 14 days. Likewise, the LBA culture was received in which M. intracellulare also grew, with no other isolates in the aerobic and anaerobic culture. The final diagnosis was bronchiectasis infection with micronodular infiltrate by M. intracellulare and lung abscess probably secondary to M. intracellulare. Treatment with clarithromycin, rifampicin and ethambutol was completed for one year after sputum negative, with no clinical recurrence or new sputum isolation.

