A 72-year-old man with a history of smoking (ex-smoker of 10 cigarettes a day for 30 years), long-standing hypertension with poor home control and a history of ischaemic heart disease, without previous infarction, revascularised with three stents six years ago. Diagnosed with primary Sjögren's syndrome with regular outbreaks of arthritis. He suffered from prostate cancer undergoing radiotherapy and without hormone blockade for three years and last year suffered a left femoral deep vein thrombosis, starting anticoagulation with acenocoumarol 4mg, which he currently maintains. He is also being treated with deflazacort for his autoimmune disease (6mg a day), atenolol (50mg a day), rosuvastatin (10mg a day), nitroglycerin (5mg a day patch) and esomeprazole (40mg a day). Currently retired and living in an urban environment, he leads an active life without limitations. He lives alone, with no contact with animals.
He consulted the emergency department for a febrile syndrome of one week's evolution accompanied by joint pain in the right wrist and ankle, with no other notable symptoms. On examination the patient was hypertensive (BP 160/90 mmHg), with normal heart rate (65 bpm), afebrile and eupneic at rest. Cardiopulmonary auscultation is normal, as is abdominal palpation. There was swelling, erythema and pain on the back of the right hand at the level of the extensor tendons, as well as in the internal malleolus of the right ankle, with the rest of the joint being normal. Blood tests showed: leukocytosis of 23820 cells/μL with 81% neutrophilia and 32% lymphocytes; elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) of 234 mg/L; mild hypertransaminasemia (AST 142.5 IU/L, ALT 114.7 IU/L); mild deterioration of renal function with creatinine of 1.51 mg/dl and normal ions. The systematic urine analysis showed no data suggestive of infection and the chest X-ray showed no pulmonary infiltrates or other alterations of interest.
He was admitted to the ward with a diagnosis of suspected septic arthritis. Serial blood cultures were performed and Streptococcus zooepidemicus sensitive to penicillin (MIC ≤ 0.12) was isolated in the two aerobic samples and in the two anaerobic samples. Urine culture was negative. The patient was re-interviewed and insisted on not having direct contact with animals. His son has a dog which he sees occasionally. He was initially treated empirically with ceftriaxone and cloxacillin, which was simplified to ceftriaxone after the microbiological isolation described. Echocardiographic screening was performed, ruling out valvular heart disease and images suggestive of endocarditis. Clinical improvement was observed with a decrease in inflammatory signs in both joints, with no pain in both, although there was still mild oedema in the wrist and erythema in the ankle without inflammation. The analytical parameters also improved, so he was discharged 6 days later with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875-125mg every 8 hours by mouth until completing two weeks of antibiotherapy. The control blood culture after 6 days of antibiotic therapy was negative. The plan is for a check-up at the clinic and a new control blood culture one week after completing the treatment.
One week after discharge, and with one day left to complete the antibiotic therapy, she consulted the emergency department again due to sudden disorientation and confusion with dysarthric speech and generalised slowness. He had not presented fever.
On examination he was hypertensive (BP 179/79 mmHg), with normal heart rate (66 bpm), eupneic and afebrile. Cardiopulmonary auscultation with no findings. Neurologically disoriented in time, bradypsychic, and on neurological examination, left homonymous haemianopsia was observed with no other focality. The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm. Blood tests showed leukocytosis of 13330 cells/μL with 85% neutrophilia, elevated acute phase reactants (CRP 52.8 mg/L, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 66 mm/h) and troponin increased by 170 pg/ml. An urgent cranial CT scan was performed, which revealed a hypodense millimetric focus in the head of the left caudate nucleus with a chronic appearance, without defining acute lesions.  Differential diagnosis The patient presented with an abrupt neurological condition with a history of infectious arthritis and bacteraemia due to S. zooepidemicus, without having completed the prescribed antimicrobial treatment. In the differential diagnosis approach, given the abruptness of the picture, we mainly included cerebrovascular accident (CVA) and infectious aetiology.
Our patient has a high burden of cardiovascular risk factors (history of smoking, long-standing hypertension and previous ischaemic heart disease), which together with the observed neurological focality (homonymous haemianopsia) suggests atherothrombotic or lacunar stroke. Embolic stroke is less likely as the patient was in sinus rhythm, although the presence of embolism secondary to intracardiac thrombus cannot be ruled out. On the other hand, the presence of leukocytosis, neutrophilia and elevated acute phase reactants make it necessary to rule out an infectious aetiology as the origin of the neurological picture. Infection of the central nervous system is a likely cause considering the recent diagnosis of infectious arthritis and bacteraemia due to S. zooepidemicus. In fact, although infections by this organism are rare, after bacteraemia, dissemination to other organs may occur, with meningitis, endophthalmitis, endocarditis, pneumonia or arthritis having been described. Few cases of meningitis specifically caused by S. zooepidemicus have been reported in the literature, although it is one of the most frequent species of group C streptococci causing meningitis3. The incubation period in humans varies from 1 to 21 days, with a median of 7 days. Fever and meningeal signs (which our patient did not have) are common at diagnosis, although alterations in mental status, low level of consciousness and stupor (which were present in this case) may also be present. Although meningitis, following dissemination by the bacteraemia, cannot be ruled out, its appearance after a period of improvement and the aforementioned neurological focality make it necessary to consider another process.
Finally, in a patient with streptococcal bacteraemia who develops neurological focality, the main diagnosis to consider is the presence of cerebral septic embolisms secondary to infective endocarditis.

Evolution
The patient is admitted to the neurology ward with initial suspicion of acute stroke. This diagnosis was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the skull, which showed an alteration in signal intensity (hyperintense in T1, with increased perilesional signal in T2/FLAIR) of gyral morphology, patchy and discontinuous involvement of some of the convolutions of the right occipital lobe (lingual gyrus) in relation to a subacute ischaemic lesion with cortical microbleeding. The patchy and discontinuous involvement suggests embolic aetiology.
As a study of the embolic source, a transthoracic echocardiogram was requested, showing an echogenic image, pedunculated, with erratic movement and ventricular prolapse in diastole, of irregular contour and 17x10mm attached to the atrial facet of the posterior mitral valve leaflet, highly suggestive of endocarditis. Empirical treatment was started with ceftriaxone 2g daily with simultaneous extraction of blood cultures without fever. The diagnosis was confirmed with a transesophageal echocardiogram that confirmed the 18x10mm vegetation on the atrial side of the mitral valve p2 festoon, with prolapsing movement in the left atrium, which led to mild mitral regurgitation. After discussing the case with Cardiac Surgery, intervention was ruled out as the mitral valve did not present any structural damage. The patient had a good clinical evolution, remaining afebrile and haemodynamically stable throughout the hospital stay. After a week of treatment, a decrease in acute phase reactants was observed (CRP 6.5 mg/dl, ESR 55 mm/h). On withdrawing corticosteroid treatment, which the patient usually takes due to his Sjögren's syndrome, he again presented non-fluctuating swelling on the dorsum of the right hand with redness. MRI of the right hand showed tenosynovitis of the extensors of the fingers and signs of arthritis of the radius and ulna joints with the carpus, which improved with the reintroduction of deflazacort.

Antibiotic treatment started with ceftriaxone 2g iv per day is continued for 6-8 weeks (MIC Cefotaxime ≤1). He was discharged three weeks after starting antibiotic therapy to continue treatment on an outpatient basis. Control blood cultures were repeated with negative results and echocardiogram with no changes, with vegetation still adhering to the mitral valve. The patient completed treatment for 8 weeks without incident, and a new control echocardiogram was performed 4 months later with no images suggestive of endocarditis. Blood cultures one month after the end of treatment were also negative and the patient was discharged from the Infectious Diseases Department.

Final diagnosis
- Infective endocarditis on native mitral valve due to Streptococcus zooepidemicus.
- Right occipital stroke of embolic aetiology secondary to endocarditis.
- Autoimmune arthritis of the right wrist.
