A 66-year-old patient attended the emergency department with symptoms of approximately 4-5 days of evolution of incoercible hiccups, accompanied by nausea without vomiting and asthenia, as well as a weight loss of about 8 kg in the last month. His only personal history was hypertension on enalapril 20 mg. Native of Equatorial Guinea. He has been in Spain for 20 years. Has not had malaria and has never taken quinine. He works as an underground cleaner. Physical examination: BEG. Black race. No jaundice. Continuous hiccups throughout the examination with pain on palpation of the epigastrium, without irradiation or signs of peritoneal irritation. Complementary tests: ECG, chest and abdominal X-ray with no findings. Laboratory tests: CRP 22.5 mg/dL, Bil 1.73 mg/dL, Na 128 mEq/L, GPT 200U/L, GGT 241U/L, LDH 670U/L; Hb 11.2 g/dL, Hct 32.8%, MCV 85.5 fl, Plaq 139,000; microhaematuria, the rest normal. Evolution: omeprazole 40 mg and metoclopramide iv were administered. In view of the analytical findings, Coombs and serology for Paul Bunnell were requested. Three hours after administering the medication, the patient continued with hiccups, so he was prescribed chlorpromazine im without improvement. Meanwhile we have the results of the analysis where Paul Bunnell appears negative and direct Coombs positive.
 Provisional judgement: The patient had haemolytic anaemia with microhaematuria-proteinuria and mild thrombopenia (Evans syndrome to be ruled out), hypertransaminasemia and hyperbilirubinaemia in relation to the above and treatment-resistant hiccups. Plan: admission is decided, requesting a blood test with serology, an iron study to locate the origin of haemolytic anaemia (CMV, HIV, hepatitis, Leishmania, malaria and syphilis) and a basic control blood test. On the way up to the ward, he had two fever peaks of 39oC, and when the Ta was lowered, the patient's hiccups improved. The haematologist confirms that the Coombs' test is a false positive due to cross-reaction with circulating antibody, with no schistocytes in smears or other evidence of haemolysis. She began to suffer abdominal pain with selective pain in the right hypochondrium, and underwent an abdominal ultrasound where hepatosplenomegaly and 3 hepatic cysts were observed. After 24 h of admission: positive results for Leishmania, so treatment was started with liposomal amphotericin B and a bone marrow aspirate showed massive infestation by intra- and extracellular Leishmania.
 Definitive judgement: visceral leishmaniasis and hiccups in relation to dysthermia.
