Male, 50 years old, HIV B3 (relapsing visceral leishmaniasis, oral candidiasis and CD4 <100), HCV, with undetectable viral load. Currently without antiretroviral treatment.
The patient was admitted for loss of 8 kg and malnutrition, together with moderate pancytopenia. Antiretroviral treatment was reintroduced together with neutrophil and platelet colony stimulating factors with good evolution.
Days later, the patient began to experience pain and weakness in both lower limbs and severe asthenia. Physical examination revealed multiple petechiae on the lower limbs and aphthae on the lower lip. Laboratory tests showed severe pancytopenia.
She began with a fever of 38oC, P. aeruginosa and Morganella morganii were isolated in blood cultures, so treatment was started with meropenem, the fever disappeared, but the severe pancytopenia persisted, so that recurrence of leishmania was ruled out on multiple occasions by PCR and bone marrow aspirate, as well as pharmacological toxicity. In view of this finding, treatment was started for non-tuberculosis Mycobacterium and for Mycobacterium tuberculosis while awaiting culture.
A CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed persistent mediastinal, hilar and periaortic adenopathies, which were similar in size or smaller than previously. Hepatomegaly and homogeneous splenomegaly, larger than the previous 22 cm. One week later a viral load for CMV of 2310 copies/nl was received, and treatment was started with foscarnet due to its low myelotoxicity potential compared to galanciclovir. Treatment was completed for 21 days and two consecutive negative viral loads were observed.
Due to persistent pancytopenia, it was decided to complete the study with an iliac crest biopsy, with a positive PCR and culture for non-tuberculosis Mycobacterium. Treatment for TB was then suspended, and treatment for MAI was maintained with azithromycin, ethambutol and rifabutin, with a good response and favourable evolution of the clinical picture.
Infection by Mycobacterium non tuberculosis genavense.
Mycobacterium genavense infection has been associated with massive adenopathy and organomegaly, especially splenomegaly, sometimes with splenic abscess.
All HIV-infected patients with MAC infection should receive a minimum of 12 months of therapy. In addition, CD4 count should be stable above 100 for at least six months before treatment is discontinued.
