A two-year-old girl was transferred to the Hospital Virgen de la Salud in Toledo for right upper lobe pneumonia (RUP) with associated pleural effusion for drainage. She was transferred in a non-medicalised ambulance with oxygen in nasal goggles at 3 bpm. Intravenous antibiotic treatment with ampicillin at 200 mg/kg/day for 48 hours with the addition of cefotaxime for the last 24 hours. The patient's vital signs are heart rate (HR): 160 bpm, blood pressure (BP): 100/50 mmHg, SatO2 99% with nasal goggles at 3 bpm, temperature (Ta) 38.6°C, respiratory rate (RF) 40 rpm. On arrival he was in fair general condition, intense pallor of the skin and mucous membranes, thermal gradient of 3°C in knees and elbows, capillary refill of 5 s. Respiratory distress with moderate sub and intercostal tugging. Rhythmic cardiac auscultation without murmurs and pulmonary auscultation with marked hypoventilation in the right lung field. The abdomen is soft and depressible, hepatomegaly of 2 cm of costal margin, neurological examination conscious and oriented, negative meningeal. The patient initially expanded to 20 ml/kg, perfusion improved and the thermal gradient disappeared, but the tachycardia persisted.

Given these findings, we should suspect:
a. Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS).
b. Sepsis.
c. Severe sepsis.
d. Septic shock.
e. Isolated LSD pneumonia.

In our case there are criteria for sepsis with dysfunction of two or more organs but without meeting the criteria for septic shock.

The results of the analytical control are in:
- Blood count: haemoglobin 6.9 g/dl, haematocrit 19.2%, platelets 18,000x106/L, leukocytes 15,500x106/L.
- Biochemistry: glucose 91 mg/dl, urea 105 mg/dl, creatinine (Cr) 1.29 mg/dl, GOT 227 U/L, GPT 55 U/L.
- Venous blood gases: pH 7.31, pCO2 45 mmHg, pO2 134 mmHg, HCO3 - 22.7 mmol/L, base excess -3.3.
Coagulation: T. prothrombin 83%, INR 1.1, T. cephalin 54.4 s, fibrinogen 954 mg/dl.

A platelet concentrate was transfused at 20 ml/kg and a right femoral vein was cannulated. He started with increased respiratory distress and severe epistaxis, which was difficult to control. It was decided to notify ENT, who placed an anterior tamponade. Despite the tamponade, bleeding persisted and he began to become drowsy and his level of consciousness decreased. Given the low level of consciousness and significant bleeding, the patient was sedoanalgesiated and the airway was secured with intubation. Subsequently, once stabilised, the presence of pleural effusion was checked by ultrasound, showing evidence of encapsulated pleural effusion measuring 3 cm from the scapula to the diaphragm. A pleural drainage tube was placed in the area of greatest accumulation; 5th intercostal space and posterior axillary line. After intubation, the patient was hypotensive, showing signs of thermal gradient, distal coldness and poor perfusion, so dopamine was started at 5 μg/kg/min. The blood test was extended and showed elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, increased reticulocytes and decreased haptoglobin.

The possible aetiology of the condition was as follows:
a. Haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) secondary to pneumococcus.
b. Septic shock secondary to complicated pneumonia.
c. Autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (AHAI).
d. Thrombocytopenic-thrombotic purpura (TTP).
e. Acute post-infectious glomerulonephritis (APGN).

We would think first of all of HUS since septic shock is associated with coagulopathy, which is not present in our case. HUS secondary to pneumococcus causes 40% of non-E. coli HUS. In its pathogenesis, pneumococcal neuraminidase degrades the sialic acid that covers Ag T in the membranes of red blood cells, platelets and glomerular endothelium, which is exposed. Recognition of Ag T by AutoAc (IgM): causes haemolysis, platelet aggregation and endothelial damage: direct Cooms +.

In our suspicion it will probably be positive:
a. Direct Cooms and pneumococcal Ag in pleural fluid.
b. Stool culture for E. coli.
c. ADAMTS 13 activity < 5%.
d. Genetic study with factor H mutation.
e. Positive rapid test for H1N1.

The aetiological diagnosis of HUS should include the study of:
- E. coli: rapid test (ELISA) for detection of STx in stool, stool culture, culture on sorbitol Mac Conkey agar, PCR, serology, blood culture.
- Pneumococcus: rapid test for detection of pneumococcal Ag in pleural fluid, positive direct Coombs' test, cultures (blood, sputum, CSF...), Coombs' test.
- HIV, H1N1: serology.
- VERY IMPORTANT IN THE EVENT OF SUSPECTED HUS, take a plasma sample prior to transfusions to REQUEST: ADAMTS 13 activity and study of complement C3, C4, CH50, FH, FI, FB, in case of atypical HUS.

Our patient's urea levels rose to 114 and creatinine to 1.33 despite diuretic treatment, with hyperphosphataemia and refractory hyperkalaemia, with a balance of +1,000 ml and diuresis of 0.7 cc/kg/h.

The patient was connected to HDFVVC for 72 hours, withdrawing after Cr decreased to 0.97 and Urea to 91, and recovering a diuresis of 3 cc/kg/h with furosemide. Pneumonia was initially treated with cefotaxime and vancomycin. On the 5th day of admission, after worsening with elevated AFR, he was switched to meropenem and linezolid. Amikacin was added 4 days later (8th day of MV). Amikacin was maintained for 4 days (up to 48 hours after extubation), linezolid for 10 days and meropenem for 13 days. On suspicion of septic pneumonia, three doses of urokinase were administered. As a secondary complication on the 4th day of MV, massive atelectasis of the left lung and right pneumothorax required VAFO for 5 days, and then continued with CMV for a further 48 hours. BP remained at high normal values for 48 hours, without requiring antihypertensive treatment. Diuretic treatment was withdrawn on the 18th day of admission, with normalisation of renal function. Given the persistence of the pneumothorax, the drainage tube was maintained until the 28th day of admission. She was reviewed in the pneumology department with persistence of 2 pneumothorax bubbles in the right anterior fields, with persistence of pachypleuritis. Renal function normalised.
