Three and a half year old girl known to the clinic since birth.
She has no family or perinatal history of note.

Psychomotor and weight-bearing development within the normal range.

Well vaccinated according to the official calendar of her Autonomous Community. She has also been vaccinated against pneumococcus c and rotavirus.

Reason for consultation
She presented in May 2012 with a fever of 39o of 24 hours of evolution. The mother commented that her throat was sore. No other clinical manifestations were reported.
-Doctor, the child suffers a lot from angina. I think she should be seen by a specialist", says the mother.
The examination of the patient in consultation is that of a girl in good general condition, with no rashes or joint involvement, acp: normal, abdomen without visceromegaly, negative meningeal signs.

The girl had painful subangulomandibular adenopathies and marked tonsillar hyperemia without clear exudation. No petechiae on the palate. No mouth ulcers are seen.
-It's always the throat, isn't it," asks the mother.
- Given the clinical and examination findings and doubts about the possible aetiology of the condition, it was decided to carry out a rapid Streptococcus pyogenes test, which was negative.
- The mother was informed of the result and the attitude to follow: symptomatic treatment with antipyretic drugs and to notify her if the culture was positive.

-She always tells me the same thing, but the child has had a very bad fever for 4 days without taking anything, when an antibiotic would cut these infections once and for all," complains the mother.

We reviewed the patient's medical history and found that since October 2011 she had consulted every month for the same symptoms and the same examination had been noted in the history, and the same throat test had been carried out at all the consultations, with negative results.

It was decided at this point to assess these very regular consultations and doubts arose as to the possible underlying cause.

The clinical history was reviewed to check that the child had not consulted for other conditions. She has not been admitted for infectious conditions or any other cause.

NADA , these are the typical symptoms of children in the first year of school.

A complete study of immunity in case it is an immunodeficiency. And a self-inflammatory disease?

Refer to the ENT specialist as it is a clear candidate for surgery.

It was decided at this consultation to carry out basic laboratory tests and a urine culture.

At the mother's insistence, she was referred to the ENT specialist.

An appointment was made to review the history and see the results.

Coinciding with the review of the analysis and the response from the ENT specialist, the girl presented a new case of fever with a focus in the throat similar to that of the last visit. A month has passed.

Laboratory tests showed no significant alterations except for a slightly elevated TSH. Urine culture was negative.

The mother reports the ENT response: these are normal processes and do not meet surgical criteria.


The mother has already requested the antibiotic that she will need for the definitive cure. This time she will not leave without it.

It was decided at this consultation to indicate treatment with prednisolone suspension: 2 mg/kg single dose and review of the child in 24 hours.

The following day, the child was seen in the clinic and was found to be afebrile after treatment and in good general condition.

This response to corticosteroids led us to reflect on the clinical picture and the management of this patient and the mother was informed.

It was decided not to perform further tests.

The girl fulfils the clinical criteria for the diagnosis known as PFAPA- syndrome.

She consulted again for similar processes until January 2013. There were still monthly episodes in which a Streptococcus pyogenes test was performed, which was negative in all cases. Prednisolone was prescribed with a similar response: fever remission in 24 hours.

She did not present other intercurrent clinical processes.

The child consulted during 2013 for three febrile episodes similar to those of 2012, which were 12 in total (one per month after reviewing the history).

The mother agrees to perform a throat test when the examination is compatible with an ENT focus.

She continues to be asymptomatic between processes.

The mother's pressure to request antibiotherapy has disappeared due to the child's good response to treatment with corticosteroids in the febrile episodes of throat origin and negative cultures of tonsillar exudates.
