The patient was a 55-year-old man, with no previous history of interest and a farm worker (Albufera area), who came to the emergency department with asthenia, very intense myalgia, pharyngitis and fever of up to 39o C for 5 days of evolution. He also had paresthesia in his hands, feet and lips, together with dysphonia and significant dysphagia for solids and liquids, for which he had been fasting for 48 hours. For the last 2 days, his urine had been dark and he reported a clear decrease in diuresis. Physical examination was unremarkable, except for a hyperemic pharynx.
A blood test was requested, which showed acute renal failure, hyperbilirubinaemia at the expense of direct renal function, discrete elevation of GOT, GPT and CK, marked elevation of CRP and ESR, and very severe platelets. The urine was clearly choluric and there was intense bacteriuria.
An ultrasound scan was requested, which only showed homogeneous splenomegaly measuring 14 cm. In the pre-transfusion study, a positive Direct Coombs was observed with a cold antibody panagglutinin (without haemolytic anaemia).
At that time and in view of the suspicion of infectious syndrome with multi-organ dysfunction, the family was questioned, who told us that the patient usually works with organophosphates (chlorpyrifos) with little protection and that in the previous days he had had a marked conjunctival injection.
The suspicion of Weil's syndrome became strong, and serology was requested, which was positive for Leptospira (IgM +, IgG -) and a determination of Leptospira DNA in urine (positive) and blood (negative), probably explained by the fact that the septicaemic (leptospiremic) phase had resolved and the immune (leptospiruric) phase of the disease was beginning.
While the manifestations secondary to leptospiremia are resolving, the paraesthesia gradually gives way to total flaccid paralysis with areflexia and progression of the bulbar symptoms, with dyspnoea requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation in the ICU to maintain proper ventilation.
Given the possibility of Guillain-Barré syndrome secondary to infection, an EMG was requested, with neurophysiological data compatible with the diagnosis of acute sensory-motor polyneuropathy/polyradiculoneuropathy without signs of demyelination. At this point, the option of a polyneuropathy associated with exposure to organophosphates (chlorpyrifos), widely described in the literature, is raised. Cholinesterase levels were normal, ruling out this option. A few days later, plateletopenia recovered and a lumbar puncture compatible with Guillain-Barré (albumin-cytological dissociation) was performed.
At this point we reviewed the literature, finding that the syndromic diagnosis of Guillain-Barré does not necessarily imply demyelination, but that its most common variant PIDA (acute demyelinating inflammatory polyneuropathy) is what is classically known as Guillain-Barré, however, there are less common variants where the damage is not necessarily caused by demyelinating demyelinating polyneuropathy, However, there are less common variants where the damage is axonal and not demyelinating, which are usually more severe and have a worse prognosis, such as AMAN (acute motor axonal neuropathy) and AMSAN (acute sensory-motor axonal neuropathy), the latter being the subtype of our patient. The evolution was good and the patient has now resumed his pre-disease daily life.
