A 66 year old woman with no other history of interest who had retinal detachment of the right eye, operated on with vitrectomy and bilateral phakectomy. She consulted for symptoms starting 4 days ago of dry mouth, difficulty swallowing, abdominal discomfort and watery vomiting. Two days later, sensation of dryness and foreign body in the eye, assessed by ophthalmology without finding any ophthalmological pathology. On the day of the consultation, she had difficulty opening her eyes, blurred vision, difficulty urinating and weakness in both lower limbs, for which reason she consulted with her husband.
It was noteworthy that the symptoms had started after eating salad salad with peppers and home-canned asparagus. Another striking fact was that her husband had bilateral eyelid ptosis and had started with similar symptoms of dry mouth, difficulty swallowing and abdominal discomfort.
The physical examination of our patient revealed dry mucous membranes, a bladder balloon that required catheterisation and neurological bradypsychia with dysarthric but fluent speech, anisocoria (dilated right pupil, not very noticeable due to her history), mydriatic and arreactive left pupil, bilateral palpebral ptosis and paraparesis of the lower limbs with altered ambulation. At this point, based on the clinical history, physical examination and epidemiological background, the first clinical suspicion is of botulism.
Botulism is a neuroparalytic disease caused by a bacterial neurotoxin secreted by Clostridium botulinum, which, by irreversible blockade of the calcium channels of the cholinergic synapses, results in flaccid paralysis and impaired function of the vegetative nervous system. One of the ways of acquiring the toxin is through spoiled home-canned food. Treatment is based on haemodynamic stabilisation and trivalent antitoxin equivalent A+B+E serum. It is a notifiable and urgent disease.
Our patient was admitted to the ICU where she was administered the antidote and remained under observation for 24 hours. She was subsequently transferred to the Internal Medicine ward with good functional recovery, and during her admission, and later on discharge, she maintained symptomatic hypotension due to autonomic involvement, one of the possible complications.
