A 66-year-old man, who 15 years before his admission had travelled to Uruguay, lived in a rural environment, with eucalyptus trees a few metres from his home, and had no history of contact with exotic birds. He had been diagnosed with silicosis, and 4 months before his admission, with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), he received corticoids intermittently. The patient consulted for severe temporo-frontal headache. Physical examination revealed a gait with an increased base of support and significant instability. Fundus examination revealed bilateral papillary oedema. Treatment was started with intravenous steroid pulses, mannitol and acetazolamide. Brain computed tomography showed bilateral basal ganglia calcifications. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and angio-MRI showed no significant alterations. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed an outflow pressure of 17.5 cm/H2O, 63 cells/μL (98% mononuclear and 1% polymorphonuclear). Cryptococcus spp. was isolated from the CSF. The strain was sent to the Mycology Service of the National Microbiology Centre for definitive identification and sensitivity study. The determination of Cryptococcus antigen in blood was 1/512 and in CSF 1/128. Treatment was started with amphotericin B at a dose of 0.7-1 mg/kg/day and 5-fluorocytosine for 14 days, followed by fluconazole 400 mg/day.

At the National Microbiology Centre, the strain was identified by morphological examinations and biochemical studies. The micro-organism showed characteristics compatible with those of C. neoformans. In addition, it was able to hydrolyse glycine and was resistant to L-canavanine and was therefore identified as C. gattii. This identification was confirmed by sequencing techniques of fungal DNA, specifically the ITS (Internal Transcriber Spacers) areas of the ribosomal DNA. Sequencing was performed using reference techniques including control strains. The sensitivity study was also performed using standardised methods.

The clinical course was initially favourable. Fifteen days after switching to fluconazole, the headache reappeared, at which time the strain was identified as C. gattii. The sensitivity study showed minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of 0.12 mg/l amphotericin-B, 128 mg/l fluconazole, 0.50 mg/l itraconazole, 1 mg/l voriconazole and 16 mg/l 5-fluorocytosine, so treatment was changed to liposomal amphotericin B (5 mg/kg/day). Given the presence of elevated CSF outflow pressures, the continued detection of Cryptococcus-compatible organisms in the CSF dye examination and the maintenance of high cryptococcal antigen titres, it was decided to increase the polyene dose to 10 mg/kg/day. Subsequently, voriconazole was added at a dose of 400 mg/day and finally voriconazole 800 mg/day was administered orally. The clinical symptoms disappeared, although it was decided to place a shunt in the peritoneal ventricle. Finally, the patient died from an episode of respiratory failure while on home leave, and the cause of death was unknown.
