This is a 38-year-old patient, with no personal history of interest, who came to the hospital emergency department referred by his family doctor for presenting a fever of 39 degrees Celsius of four days' evolution, associated with headache, profuse sweating and intense general malaise and myalgias. The anamnesis noted that the patient had returned from a rural area of South Africa seven days earlier. He had not taken antimalarial prophylaxis. He also had a lesion on the left buttocks and right pubic region (the patient had a bite mark). His girlfriend had several similar skin lesions, although she remained asymptomatic. There were no other symptoms to explain an infectious focus.

Physical examination showed a patient in an acceptable general condition: febrile (temperature 39°C), blood pressure 120/70, pulse 90, saturation 98%. Upper functions were preserved. The rest of the physical examination was normal, except for two lesions as seen in figure 1, measuring 0.5 cm, on the left buttock and right pubic region, consisting of an ulcerative lesion, covered by a black eschar and surrounded by an erythematous halo with regional painful satellite adenopathies. There were no organomegaly or lymphadenopathy at other levels, nor were there any exanthema.

Laboratory tests showed an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 20; C-reactive protein of 3.59; 4,500 leukocytes with 70.8% segmented; 14.4% lymphocytes; haemoglobin of 13.2; 137,000 platelets; glucose of 103; creatinine of 0.9; glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase of 90 and glutamic pyruvic transaminase of 211. All other laboratory parameters were normal. Elemental urinalysis and chest X-ray were normal. The thick drop test was negative.

When a patient presents with fever and lesions suggestive of bites after a trip, we should always think of imported rickettsiae.

With the diagnosis of suspected fever secondary to rickettsial infection following a bite, treatment was started with doxycycline 100 mg/12 hours for 10 days. After 48 hours the patient was afebrile and in the following days the symptoms progressively disappeared. Immunofluorescence showed immunoglobulin M titres of 1/160.

Treatment is the same as for Mediterranean button fever (MBF): doxycycline 200 mg/12 hours for 7 to 10 days. An alternative is ciprofloxacin at a dose of 500 mg/12 hours for 10 days. Complications are rare.

African tick bite fever is caused by Rickettsia africae, which has been known since the early 20th century and was first documented in Zimbabwe in 1992. It is caused by the bite of the Amblyomma hebraeum and Amblyomma variegatum ticks that parasitise cattle and wildlife and then bite humans. This tick is not host specific, so infections are not sporadic, but endemic to sub-Saharan regions.

It should be suspected in people who have travelled to sub-Saharan Africa and may have been in contact with livestock or wild animals. The incubation period is 6-7 days. Clinical signs include fever, headache, myalgia, lesions suggestive of bites in exposed areas with associated painful lymphadenopathy.
