Anamnesis and physical examination
The patient is 63 years old, a taxi driver by profession, with a personal history of hypertension, hyperuricaemia, dyslipidaemia and non-insulin-dependent type II diabetes mellitus. He presented with more than a year's history of lesions on his face, which he reported were very pruritic. In addition, her condition worsened with exposure to the sun and alcoholic beverages. He denied having introduced new treatments, having other family members affected by a similar dermatosis, living with children or animals, as well as travelling abroad in recent years. He had been treated at the primary care centre with various topicals whose name he could not remember, with occasional improvement, and for the last month with betamethasone dipropionate ointment first, and then with ketoconazole cream. However, the worsening of her symptoms became noticeable over the last few weeks and was unbearable, and she consulted the emergency department.
The dermatological examination showed a profusion of infiltrated erythematous papules, in some areas with associated slight desquamation, scattered over both hemicaras, predominantly on the left. Some of the lesions had a subtle annular arrangement on the periphery of the face, and isolated intermingled vesicles could also be seen.

Diagnosis and treatment
Although the initial diagnostic impression was of possible rosacea or seborrhoeic dermatitis, due to the tendency of some of the lesions to be annular, although not very noticeable, the larval nature of the process and the lack of response to topical corticosteroid treatment, it was decided to take a scraping sample for direct examination with KOH and fungal culture. For the following two weeks, treatment with primecrolimus 1% cream once daily was prescribed, with only partial improvement in symptoms. The fungal culture then showed the growth of Trichopyton Tonsurans species, and the final diagnosis of incognito tinea facialis or Tinea Faciei incognito was established.
With the suspension of primecrolimus cream and an oral regimen of terbinafine, 250 mg per day for 4 weeks, all the skin lesions disappeared, as well as the associated pruritus and photosensitivity.
