Male, 40 years old, single, lives with his parents, with studies in computer engineering, having worked in different companies as an engineer, with good work performance, with promotions and positive evaluation of his performance. Following the closure of the last company where he worked, he became unemployed and has been unemployed for the last two years. She has gone to several job interviews, but the work and financial demands she made led to her rejection of the job. The family reports that he asked for high salaries, had an arrogant and contemptuous attitude towards the interviewers. She has no personal medical history of interest.

The family psychiatric antecedents are multiple but not very specific, highlighting problems with drug use in a cousin, possible jealousy in the father and a grandfather, with no alcohol consumption to justify it, aggressive and strange behaviour in paternal cousins and uncles, a paternal aunt with a psychiatric admission with an undefined diagnosis and a maternal grandmother in psychiatric treatment also for unknown reasons. He has a healthy sister.

The family defines him as an egocentric, cold, distant, reserved person who placed great importance on his social status and physical appearance. He showed excellent academic and work performance later on. He had a relationship with a partner, which broke up when he was 22 years old, and it is said that afterwards he isolated himself and devoted himself to studying intensively.

With regard to his toxicological history, he reports occasional alcohol consumption, presenting significant behavioural alterations when he consumes it in small quantities, which is why he does not usually drink. He has also had occasional cocaine consumption. He has consumed cannabis in an unspecified quantity in the years prior to the onset of his illness, up to the age of 36. The patient tends to minimise this consumption, which was usually solitary and hidden, so the family cannot give any information about it either. It is not possible to specify when the consumption began, but it seems to have continued for several years. It seems clear that after the onset of his psychotic condition, his consumption has completely subsided, given that he spends most of his time at home and is supervised by his family, and they have not observed any signs of renewed consumption. Moreover, subsequent toxicological tests have always been negative. His psychotic disorder began gradually at the age of 36, when his family detected inappropriate behaviour such as smiling alone, mistrust and verbal aggression. He was at work and reported that his superiors wanted to harm him, he laughed uncontrollably, talked to himself and insulted people who were not present. He sometimes acted as if he was talking to someone. He told his family that they did not understand him because he was gifted, that he had a high sensory capacity, was able to listen to several conversations at the same time and could work with several computer screens simultaneously. He put several passwords on his computer and was careful not to be seen working on it, commenting that he was working on important projects that they wanted to steal from him. For this reason, he was referred to psychiatric consultations, which the patient left after only a few visits. At the age of 38, he presented his first psychiatric admission due to significant hostility, with aggressive verbal and physical behaviour, and was excessively distrustful. He again had unmotivated laughter, talked to himself, said that people in the street were looking at him and talking about him, that his neighbour was spying on him and that was why he had the blinds down and the whole house under strict security measures. He said that there was a conspiracy against him and that was why he was not hired. He was more dysphoric, getting angry with the family over irrelevant things, turning the TV up loud. He talked about an important project that was secret, even "it was secret to him" and that people were trying to get it. During admission, the patient was very defensive, minimising his problems, rationalising all his symptoms, with no awareness of his illness, making it very difficult to obtain information about his condition and blaming the family for his admission. He was prescribed oral antipsychotics with a very good response to treatment.

Two years later he was admitted again, after abandoning pharmacological treatment, with no evidence of renewed drug use, with similar clinical symptoms. He showed mistrust of his family, with threats towards them, extravagant behaviour such as drinking only bottled water and eating only what he prepared himself, with the blinds down all day long, having dismantled several telephones as he thought they were tapped and claiming that he worked with his computer for several companies simultaneously without it being real. No sensory-perceptual alterations were observed, with a predominance of delusions of harm and grandeur and a suspicious attitude, distant contact, with a scattered and vague discourse, justifying all his behaviour and with no awareness of illness. The negative symptoms were dominated by cold and blunted affectivity, impoverished thinking and significant social withdrawal. On discharge he was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. Treatment with long-acting injectable risperidone 50 mg every two weeks and oral paliperidone 12 mg daily was prescribed, with good tolerance and remission of productive symptoms.

Subsequent follow-up showed good compliance with treatment, with no side effects, no drug use and very good control of positive symptoms. Negative symptoms predominate, with impoverished speech, significant social withdrawal and affective flattening.
