Scope of the case
We present a clinical case about the outpatient management of a patient with heart failure, in which specialists in Family and Community Medicine participate, avoiding unnecessary admission to the patient.

Reason for consultation
Decompensated heart failure, dyspnoea at rest.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests)

Anamnesis: 76-year-old male. Family history of no interest. No known drug allergies. Ex-smoker with onset in youth and until 13 years ago, 10 cigarettes a day (ICAT 23 packs/year). Dyspnoea grade III/IV mMRC (not assessed by Pneumology). AHT and type 2 DM on treatment with oral antidiabetics, with target organ involvement (retinopathy and stage 3 renal failure being monitored by Nephrology, last review in August 2019). Chronic disorder anaemia. Past infection with Hepatitis B virus (positive anti-core and anti-HBs antibodies). Depressive syndrome.
The patient attended in the last month with increased demand, due to worsening of his depressive symptoms, with intense asthenia, which the patient attributed to his depression. However, on consultation, the patient reported dyspnoea on slight exertion, with a clear worsening of his baseline dyspnoea, as well as oedema with fovea in both lower limbs from the distal third to the middle and orthopanea on three pillows.

Physical examination: good general condition, tachypneic at rest, well hydrated and perfused. Normal colour.
Auscultation: rhythmic heart tones with systolic murmurs in aortic focus III/IV. Good vesicular murmur with coarse crackles from the base to the middle.
Abdomen: soft and depressible, no masses, no megaliths, not painful on palpation, no signs of peritoneal irritation.
Lower limbs: oedema with pitting up to the middle third.
Neurological: oriented in the three spheres, upper functions preserved. No neurological focality.

Complementary tests:
BP: 145/90 HR: 104 bpm. O2 saturation: 98% A/A
ECG: sinus rhythm at 72 bpm, left axis, PR without alterations, narrow QRS with signs of left ventricular hypertrophy. No acute ischaemic alterations
Chest X-ray: well inspired, with cardiothoracic index within upper limits, without increased density, with costophrenic sinus impingement and bilateral pleural effusion with signs of cardiac congestion.
Post-treatment chest X-ray: well inspired, with cardiothoracic index within upper limits, no increase in density, and preserved costophrenic sinuses.

Family and community approach
Patient aged 73 years, independent for basic activities of daily living, manages money and medication, upper functions preserved and Barthel 75 points, with good family support. High socio-economic level.

Action plan and evolution
After evaluation of the examination, it was decided to perform an urgent chest X-ray and urgent analysis for the following morning, once the pleural effusion was visualised, and the results of the analysis with atrial natriuretic pro peptide, it was decided to increase the Furosemide 40 mg orally, from 1 to 2 and a half tablets a day, and to return to the clinic after 3 days for re-evaluation.
After three days, the patient returned to the clinic, with a clear reduction in oedema in both lower limbs. An urgent control X-ray was ordered. The X-ray showed great clinical improvement in the patient, without visualisation of pleural effusion, as well as the patient's dyspnoea.
After re-evaluating the patient, the dose of furosemide was gradually reduced, explaining to the patient the need for correct adherence to the treatment, as well as hygiene and dietary measures and daily weighing.
After 10 days of intensive depletive treatment, we saw the patient again and observed complete resolution of the symptoms, with total disappearance of oedema in the lower limbs, as well as good pulmonary auscultation and no visualisation of pleural effusion.
Months later, the patient presented good control of his chronic pathologies in consultation.
