Anamnesis
84-year-old woman, drug reaction to azithromycin, with no confirmed allergy, with a personal history of hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidaemia and transient ischaemic attack of the motor aphasia type in 2011. She came to the emergency department with severe headache and persistent vomiting in the last 48 hours, as well as behavioural alterations, oscillations in the level of consciousness and self-limited episodes of difficulty in moving her right limbs and impaired speech. She also reports a dystrophic sensation and anorexia, with no infectious symptoms of any device.

Physical examination
Blood pressure 100/50 mmHg, heart rate 100 bpm, oxygen saturation 96%. Temperature 36.5 oC. Conscious, regular general condition, mucocutaneous pallor. Well hydrated. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic tones without murmurs. Respiratory auscultation: vesicular murmur preserved in all lung fields. Abdomen soft, depressible, without masses or organomegaly. Preserved hydro-aerial sounds. Lower extremities without oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis. Neurological examination: bradypsychia with occasional difficulty in understanding and carrying out simple commands, language preserved but with occasional limitations in comprehension and sometimes somewhat incongruent response. Limitation in abduction of both eyes suggestive of bilateral sixth nerve paresis. Mild right central facial paresis. Muscle balance in the right extremities 4/5, left without alterations. Osteotendinous reflexes present and symmetrical. Sensibility without alterations.

Complementary tests
- Urgent blood tests: haemoglobin 9.3 g/dl, haematocrit 28.6%, mean corpuscular volume 105.8 fl, leukocytes 11.4 mil/mm3, platelets 4 mil/mm3, total bilirubin 1.4 mg/dl, direct bilirubin 0.3 mg/dl, total protein 6.1 g/dl, lactate dehydrogenase 1. 645 IU/l, sodium 131.5 mEq/l, calcium 7.8 mg/dl, ionic calcium 1.1 mmol/l, with other biochemistry and coagulation normal. Urine: bacterial flora 2+, proteinuria 2+.
- Deferred blood tests: haemoglobin 12.5 g/dl, haematocrit 33.7%, mean corpuscular volume 102.3 fl, reticulocytes 12.09%, reticulocytes 269.4 mil/mm3, leucocytes 14 mil/mm3, platelets 57 mil/mm3. Peripheral blood morphology: schistocytes 3-4 and spherocytes 2%. Haptoglobin 7.56 mg/dl. Cellular immunity study, immunoglobulins, complement, autoimmunity study, serology (brucella, toxoplasma, human immunodeficiency virus, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus, varicella zoster virus and borrelia), vitamin B12 and folic acid without alterations.
- Blood tests at discharge: haemoglobin 10.3 g/dl, haematocrit 31.6%, mean corpuscular volume 105 fl, leukocytes 12.7 mil/mm3, platelets 202 mil/mm3.
- Urgent brain MRI: no significant alterations.

Diagnosis
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.

Treatment
Platelet transfusion. Red blood cell transfusion. Plasmapheresis. Levetiracetam 500 mg every 12 hours, and calcium.

Evolution
Given the clinical instability of the patient, it was decided to admit her to the Intensive Care Unit for study and evolutionary control. On admission, transfusion of red blood cell and platelet concentrates was started and treatment with intravenous corticoids, anti-epileptic drugs (levetiracetam 500 mg every 12 hours) and calcium was initiated, after which the patient improved clinically, with disappearance of the focal point. Due to the persistence of the alteration in the analytical parameters, the case was assessed jointly with Haematology, which recommended daily plasmapheresis (15 in total). After stabilisation of the clinical picture, the patient was transferred to the Haematology Department. With good general condition and recovery of analytical figures, she was discharged home after 30 days of hospitalisation.

