A 61 year old male patient who, while admitted to hospital, began to experience intense pain in the right shoulder of sudden onset (~24 hours). 
On examination, the shoulder showed signs of erythema, swelling, increased circumference and moderate functional impotence. There was also a known hepato-splenomegaly, with no palpable peripheral adenopathies. The rest of the physical examination by apparatus was normal.
The patient, an active farmer from the La Ribera area, had been diagnosed with stage C (IV) hyperleukocytic chronic lymphocytic leukaemia B (B-CLLL) 4 weeks earlier after consulting for prolonged toxic syndrome without fever. The patient had so far received one session of leukapheresis, which was performed in the ICU of our centre after implanting a central venous catheter, together with hyperhydration and rasburicase, and 2 cycles of CHOP chemotherapy, the last one two weeks before the current episode. As associated infectious complications until then, she had presented fever secondary to a focus of phlebitis in the upper extremity ten days earlier. Blood cultures, both from peripheral vein blood and transcatheter blood, had isolated two microorganisms, a gram-negative bacterium (Acinetobacter baumannii-multidrug-resistant complex) and a gram-positive coccus (Enterococcus faecalis). The initial empirical antibiotic therapy with piperacillin-tazobactam plus vancomycin was adapted to a regimen of ampicillin/sulbactam and colistin, both intravenously. The vascular access involved in the phlebitis was replaced with a new implantation in another body area.

At the time of onset of pain and phlebotic signs in the right shoulder the patient was on the 10th day of targeted antibiotic treatment, afebrile, stable, and with resolving inflammatory signs of phlebitis without cellulitis or panniculitis. There was no profound neutropenia but anaemia, marked thrombopenia and global hypogammaglobulinaemia. A differential diagnosis was made and a number of clinical options and possible syndromes were raised, thus requesting several new complementary examinations. Plain radiography of the right shoulder showed no relevant findings, no calcifications or crystals. Doppler ultrasound of the upper limb showed a permeable deep venous system of the extremity, as did the jugular veins, with no signs of thrombosis, cellulitis or other findings of pathological significance. Febrile fever appeared at 37.7oC and new blood cultures were taken. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the right shoulder was also performed, showing marked intermuscular oedema and trabeculation of the fat in that region, associated with a significant effusion in the subacromiodeltoid bursa and in the subscapular recess, with involvement of the acromioclavicular joint, all suggestive of an extensive inflammatory process with synovitis; He also had a hyposignal of the entire bone marrow of the acromion, clavicle and humeral metaphyseal region, this last sign being highly suggestive of leukaemic infiltration. There were no bone erosions in the humeral head, nor in the bony glenoid, nor alterations in the rotator cuff.

At this point it was decided to perform the planned shoulder arthrocentesis after infusing the platelet pools necessary for the safe practice of joint puncture, and both the blood cultures and the joint fluid culture obtained allowed the final aetiological diagnosis to be reached. 

Evolution
The swelling and phlogosis of the shoulder that had appeared during the combined antibiotic treatment did not improve in the following days, but the arthrocentesis partially relieved the patient's discomfort. The synovial fluid obtained (8 cc) was yellowish, slightly cloudy and had inflammatory characteristics in the cytobiochemical study. It had been seeded both directly on solid media and in blood culture bottles with enriched liquid media and incubated in automated systems. When both the last blood cultures performed and the blood culture bottles seeded with the joint fluid showed positivity for microbial growth, the usual acridine orange and Gram stains were performed (interestingly without clear observation of bacteria) and subsequent transfers to standard solid media (blood agar, chocolate agar) and to special solid media for nutritionally demanding and/or cell wall-deficient bacteria. In addition, prolonged incubation of these transfers to solid media in appropriate atmospheres was carried out. With this system, after 10-12 days it was possible to isolate in both samples (blood culture blood and synovial fluid) some very particular colonies belonging to bacteria of the genus Mycoplasma, and subsequently identified as Mycoplasma hominis. No other microorganisms were recovered in the culture of the synovial fluid on standard media. Doxycycline IV antibiotics (100 mg/12h) were added to the antibiotic treatment and the patient experienced a marked clinical improvement of joint pain in successive days and a progressive reduction of the articular flogotic signs, as well as a gradual disappearance of the synovial effusion. He was subsequently discharged on oral doxycycline, which was well tolerated, for a total of 4 weeks of arthritis treatment. In the outpatient follow-up, clinical and imaging (MRI) controls showed complete resolution of the osteoarticular infection of the shoulder, leaving only a slight sequelae in terms of the range of motion of some movements. Currently, the patient is stable and on an outpatient basis for follow-up of his B-CLL, which showed response to the chemotherapy treatments administered.Once the stored bottles of the first blood cultures were recovered, in those in which A. baumannii-complex and E. faecalis had been isolated in blood, we proceeded to follow a similar microbiological system to that already described with the later samples, and we also managed to isolate colonies of M. hominis.

FINAL SYNDROMIC AND AETIOLOGICAL DIAGNOSIS:
Mycoplasma hominis (M. hominis) septic arthritis of the shoulder in a patient with B-CLL and previous vascular catheter infection with phlebitis.
