Anamnesis
A 79-year-old woman with a personal history of arterial hypertension under pharmacological treatment, with no other notable medical or surgical history. She was referred to the emergency department by her primary care physician for a suspected cervical abscess following an arthropod bite, requesting its surgical removal. The patient reported having been stung in an urban environment at the cervical level 24 hours earlier, having observed local erythema in the following hours as well as intense pruritus. She had not applied any previous topical treatment, nor had she recently introduced any new drugs. She reported being in good general condition, although she had difficulty falling asleep due to the pruritus. Neither the patient nor her relative had observed any pre-existing cervical alterations prior to the bite. The anamnesis did not reveal any other relevant epidemiological history.

Physical examination
In the general physical examination, the patient was in good general condition, although she was noticeably nervous, which she attributed to pruritus. In addition, she had a significant elevation of blood pressure (210/120 mmHg), with heart rate and basal oxygen saturation within the normal range. No fever was noted. On cardiac auscultation the patient was rhythmic, although a unilateral carotid murmur in the right laterocervical area (where the patient reported having been stung) was striking. On dermatological examination, a circular pulsatile area was observed at the level of the right laterocervical region, in its proximal portion. More distally, a poorly demarcated erythematous plaque was observed, with a slight increase in local temperature, with a smaller habonous plaque inside it, which had a central point. There were no other notable findings, including a systematic neurological examination.

Complementary examinations
A referral to vascular surgery was made on suspicion of a pre-existing supra-aortic trunk anomaly, which was clinically more evident due to the elevated blood pressure. A Doppler ultrasound scan showed turbulent flow at the level of the right common carotid artery, with suspicion of a tortuous trajectory at the level of the brachiocephalic trunk. For a correct study of the case, it was recommended that an angio-CT scan of the supra-aortic trunks be performed on a scheduled basis.

Diagnosis
Arthropod bite in the cervical region, coinciding with the area of dolichoectasia of the right common carotid artery, in a patient with a hypertensive emergency.

Treatment
The first priority for this patient in the Emergency Department was to reduce blood pressure, for which oral antihypertensive treatment was started. In addition, an oral antihistamine (2 mg dexchlorpheniramine maleate) and a topical corticosteroid (0.1% mometasone furoate) were administered to manage the arthropod bite.

Evolution
We questioned the patient and family about the previous existence of the pulsatile cervical mass and they reported that they had never observed it before. After correction of the blood pressure, the cervical pulsatile area was practically imperceptible, although the unilateral carotid murmur persisted. On discharge, the patient was referred to the Vascular Surgery and Neurology Departments to complete the study and start prophylactic antiplatelet treatment. Two weeks after the ED visit, the patient was examined and the cervical erythematous plaque disappeared completely, with the absence of associated pruritus.
Based on the above, a diagnosis of cervical arthropod bite was made, coinciding with dolichoectasia of the right common carotid artery, manifested as a pulsatile cervical mass in the context of a hypertensive emergency.
Based on the above, the diagnosis of cervical arthropod bite, coincident with right common carotid dolichoectasia, manifested as a cervical pulsatile mass in the context of a hypertensive emergency, was reached.
