Anamnesis
A 47-year-old male patient, with no previous history of interest, consulted for a decrease in meatal calibre and progressive worsening of voiding quality, with itching and lengthening of micturition time.

Physical examination
The patient presented with a good general appearance, with normal genitalia and no obvious skin lesions, with meatal stenosis, and surgical treatment was indicated.
During the meatotomy, the urethral mucosa was found to be covered with lesions suggestive of condyloma acuminata, and urethroscopy was performed during the same surgical procedure.

Complementary tests
- In the urethrocystoscopy, pedunculated verrucous lesions were observed extending along the entire mucosa from the navicular fossa to the bulbar urethra, and a cold biopsy was taken.
- The anatomopathological result of the biopsy of the lesions was condyloma acuminatum with mild-moderate epithelial dysplasia.
- Serial voiding cystourethrography (CUMS) was requested, which showed a urethra of regular calibre, but with scalloped limits and repletion defects along its entire length.
- The study was complemented by an investigation of other STDs, with a positive result for HIV, unknown to date.

Diagnosis
Extensive intraurethral condylomatosis in an HIV-positive patient.

Treatment
The patient was referred to the Infectious Diseases Unit of our hospital to complete the study and start systemic treatment of his HIV infection.
For the treatment of his intraurethral lesions, topical intraurethral treatment was prescribed with 5% 5-fluorouracil gel with lidocaine, administered once a week for 6 weeks, applied intraurethrally for 20 minutes each session, with good tolerance to the drug and no relevant side effects.

Evolution
After the first course of treatment, the patient reported an improvement in voiding quality, but without reaching the comfort level prior to the onset of the clinic.
A new cystourethrogram was performed, which showed a decrease in urethral irregularity, but without complete disappearance, so a new course of intraurethral treatment was indicated, this time for 8 weeks.
Once the topical treatment was finished, a urethroscopy was performed, finding small lesions only in the navicular fossa, which were photocoagulated with laser.
In the control urethroscopy after one month there was no recurrence of the lesions, and the urethral calibre was uniform, with no stenosis or retraction.
In subsequent clinical controls the patient remains asymptomatic and with normal urethrography and urethrocystoscopy at 6 months follow-up.
