A 10 year old girl with abdominal pain of 24 hours evolution, epigastric location, of moderate intensity, accompanied by 2-3 vomiting and a stool of soft consistency, for which acute gastroenteritis was diagnosed and treatment with metoclopramide and scopolamine methylbromide was indicated with little improvement, so she went to the emergency department. She denies fever.

BACKGROUND
Family: Mother: 31 years old. She reports 3 episodes of pancreatitis, at the ages of 12, 17 and 18 years, the last one appearing after an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP).

Personal history: not relevant.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION
Good general conditionGood colouring, hydration and perfusion. Abdomen soft and depressible, diffusely painful on palpation, with no signs of peritoneal irritation, palpation of the splenic pole 1 cm below the left costal ridge. The rest is unaltered.

COMPLEMENTARY EXAMINATIONS
Haemogram on admission: Hb 14.4 g/dl, Ht 40.4%, leucocytes 13860 (82.6%N, 9.3%L) platelets 320000. Coagulation normal.
Haemogram at 24 hours: normal, ESR 35.

Abdominal ultrasound: slightly enlarged pancreas with preserved echogenicity. Free abdominal fluid in the right flank and lower pelvis. Inconclusive signs of pancreatitis.

Microbiology: RSV, Influenza A and B negative. EBNA IgG +. Anti VCA IgM - and IgG +. Parasites in stool negative.

Sweat test: 76mEq/L.
Genetic study: samples were sent from the patient and his parents to study the PRSS1 gene mutation due to suspicion of hereditary pancreatitis.

EVOLUTION:
She was admitted with parenteral hydration and analgesia with metamizole, improving pain in the first few days. She was asymptomatic and was started on liquid enteral nutrition with lipid-free polymeric formula at half her basal needs and later, after adequate tolerance without recurrence of symptoms, she was placed on a low-fat and low-protein diet. She discharged in good condition, tolerating the oral route, without abdominal pain.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
Acute pancreatitis
