A 51 year old patient came to the emergency department with fever of 10 days' duration. No history of interest except smoking 12 cigarettes/day. In the anamnesis he reported a feeling of dystrophy, denying any infectious symptoms at any level. He reported trips to the countryside to pick mushrooms, denying insect bites. He reported no relevant epidemiological history except for contact with Mexican relatives who came to Spain after the death of his brother. In the ED, the patient remained haemodynamically stable, with a temperature of 37.6oC; physical examination was normal, with no objective skin lesions. Laboratory tests showed mild thrombopenia (105,000), mild hypertransaminasemia, as well as elevation of other acute phase reactants. Chest X-ray with no pneumonic consolidation. Admitted to Internal Medicine (IM) to study febrile syndrome without focus.
On admission the patient remained afebrile. On cross-examination he reported contact with a newborn lamb two weeks before the onset of symptoms. Physical examination revealed an evanescent morbilliform exanthema, with no other changes. Laboratory tests showed only persistent hypertransaminasemia. An abdominal ultrasound was requested, showing mild hepatosplenomegaly. Viral and bacterial serologies were requested, and the patient was discharged with a review in two weeks in the IM department.
Without waiting for the consultation, she came to the emergency department seven days later for recurrence of fever, and was readmitted to the ICU (normal examination and laboratory tests with persistent hypertransaminasemia). Serologies were negative for hepatotropic viruses, HIV, CMV, Toxoplasma, Leishmania, treponemias and rickettsias, IgM indeterminate for CMV; IgM for EBV, IgM and IgG for Borrellia and IgM for Coxiella with negative IgG. In view of these results, doxycycline 100 mg every 12 hours for 14 days was started and a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, which showed no valvular alterations suggestive of endocarditis.
The patient was sent to the M.I. department with new serologies in 15 days, the latter showing the negativity of all the previous positive serologies (the previous ones being considered false positives) with the exception of the seroconversion to Coxiella IgG (phase II antigens positive), and a diagnosis of Q fever in the acute phase was made.
