A 54-year-old male smoker with a history of obesity, dyslipidaemia, ischaemic heart disease and intermittent claudication. He underwent vascular surgery and underwent right ilio-femoral bypass, with placement of a dacron vascular prosthesis due to critical stenosis of the iliac artery. In the immediate postoperative period he presented fever accompanied by erythema, oedema and sero-purulent exudate through the surgical wound. The patient had leukocytosis (12600/mm3) and elevated CRP (425 mg/L). Blood cultures were negative. An emergency CT scan was performed 24 hours after the operation, showing a liquid and gas collection in the abdominal wall near the implanted prosthesis, which could correspond to post-surgical changes. A culture of the exudate from the surgical wound isolated methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus. Suspecting a deep infection of the surgical wound, treatment was started with cloxacillin 2g intravenous every 6 hours for two weeks, changing at discharge to levofloxacin 750 mg/24h orally, completing a further two weeks of treatment. Symptoms progressed well and fever disappeared.

Differential diagnosis
The appearance of a sero-purulent exudate through a surgical wound raises the differential diagnosis between several entities. On the one hand, the possibility of a non-infectious process such as post-surgical serous exudate, which can occur in certain cases, should always be taken into account. The fact that the patient presented with fever, elevated acute phase reactants and isolation of S. aureus in the exudate leads us to believe that it was a surgical site infection. However, the CT findings of a periprosthetic collection of non-significant size (< 5mm) and high density (>20 U Housfield) could be justified by surgery-related changes. Assuming infection is present, we must differentiate whether it is a superficial, deep or intracavitary infection as the treatment and severity may be very different. It is difficult to differentiate between these 3 entities as all of them may produce local or systemic symptoms and purulent discharge with or without isolation of microorganisms. Among the most frequent microorganisms isolated in infections after vascular surgery are S. aureus (20-53%), enterobacteria (14-41%) and coagulase-negative S. aureus (15%). Other microorganisms such as Streptococcus spp., non-fermenting gram-negative bacilli or enterococci (10%-15%) must be taken into account. We can also find polymicrobial infections (20%), purely anaerobic (5%) or fungal infections (1-2%)1. We cannot forget about multi-resistant microorganisms such as BLEE-producing enterobacteria or methicillin-resistant S. aureus that affect patients with specific risk factors.

Evolution
One month later he was readmitted for fever and pain in the surgical area, with neutrophilia (16,000/mm3) and elevated CRP (308 mg/L). Blood cultures isolated methicillin-sensitive S. aureus. A new CT scan showed a pseudo-anuerysm at the anastomosis of the prosthesis with the distal arterial artery and a collection around the prosthesis. Abdominal-pelvic c/c CT scan: pseudoaneurysm at the anastomosis of the prosthesis. 3D vascular image by CT reconstruction showing pseudoaneurysm in the distal vascular anastomosis. The patient was re-intervened in the emergency department and underwent surgical debridement, drainage, resection of the pseudoaneurysm and the distal segment of the vascular prosthesis, and intraoperative cultures were taken, which were negative. The postoperative evolution of the wound was torpid, healing by second intention, using local dressings and a vacuum system. In view of the suspected infection of the prosthesis and the presence of potentially complicated bacteraemia due to S. aureus, antibiotic treatment was started with cloxacillin 2g every 4 hours for two weeks, with negative control blood cultures. He subsequently completed treatment with levofloxacin 750 mg and rifampicin 600 mg orally every 24 hours for 4 months on an outpatient basis. During follow-up she presented with a fistulous wound orifice, with intermittent drainage of purulent and serohaematic material. With suspicion of persistent infection of the unresected prosthesis segment, a scintigraphy with labelled leukocytes and SPECT-CT was performed, showing radiotracer uptake in the proximal segment of the recently implanted ilio-femoral prosthesis. SPECT-CT: radiotracer uptake in the proximal segment of the ilio-femoral prosthesis.
For this reason, a new operation was necessary in which all the prosthetic material was removed. Escherichia coli was isolated from the culture. The patient completed treatment with ceftriaxone 1g/24h for 7 days followed by ceftibutene 400mg/24h orally for a further week. Since then the patient remained asymptomatic, to date.

Final diagnosis
Early deep surgical wound infection with S. aureus and late vascular prosthesis infection with E. coli.

