A 60-year-old man with a history of active smoking of 20 cigarettes/day, arterial hypertension on treatment with ramipril and nasal basal cell carcinoma operated by complete resection. The patient had no other associated pathologies. The current picture began abruptly when, previously asymptomatic, he suffered a self-limited seizure with tonic-clonic movements of the right limbs and subsequent post-critical state. He was transferred to the emergency department of his referral hospital (Río Tinto Hospital) where a cranial computed tomography (CT) scan was performed, revealing lesions suggestive of brain metastasis, for which it was decided to admit him to Internal Medicine.

On the ward, the patient showed normal higher functions, oriented in time and space and with coherent language. There were no campimetric deficits or cranial nerve alterations. Motor balance and superficial and deep sensitivity were normal. Bilateral flexor plantar cutaneous reflex. Afebrile, blood pressure 120/60. Eupneic at rest. Auscultation is rhythmic without murmurs, vesicular murmur preserved. The abdomen is soft, with preserved sounds without masses or megaliths, residual scars or adenopathies. In the lower extremities, bilateral symmetrical and preserved pulses without oedema, without signs of DVT, with the presence of scattered macular ocher lesions that were not raised.

In the biochemistry the most relevant data were: glycaemia 125 mg/dl, creatinine 1.15 mg/dl, urea 66 mg/dl, protein 5 g/dl, and in the haemogram: 6,670 leukocytes/μl with normal formula, Hb 76 g/l, normocytic normochromic, haematocrit 0.22 l/l, 234,000 platelets/μl and normal coagulation. Cranial CT scan showed well-demarcated left parietal lesions, the largest measuring 14 mm, and a cystic lesion in the left frontal lobe suggestive of neoplastic origin. An MRI scan of the brain showed a cystic lesion in the upper left frontal lobe with extensive perilesional oedema, suggestive of a metastatic lesion without being able to rule out other diagnostic possibilities. Given the suspicion of metastatic origin, an extension study was requested by thoraco-abdominal CT scan showing the presence of an irregular, nodular, nodular thickening at the level of the left lateral-basal visceral pleura, with a small adjacent loculated pleural effusion. The coexistence of cerebral LOE, pulmonary mass and a history of smoking suggested a diagnosis of lung carcinoma with brain metastasis, so it was decided to approach the lung lesion. A CT-guided biopsy of the lung lesion was performed, followed by pathological anatomy without demonstrating the presence of a primary tumour. The patient was referred to the neurosurgery department of our hospital (H.U. Virgen del Rocío) to obtain a biopsy and anatomopathological study, as the lung biopsy had been negative. Finally, the patient underwent surgery with the aim of complete resection of the lesion due to the high suspicion of neoplasia. A left frontal craniotomy was performed and a yellowish mucoid tumour with numerous cystic formations was observed, which was completely resected. Samples were sent to both anatomical pathology and microbiology.

Differential diagnosis
Cranial MRI and CT are the first diagnostic step for the detection and characterisation of intracranial expansive lesions. Brain metastases are the most common intracranial tumours. Their diagnosis is usually facilitated by the presence of a primary tumour, although in up to one third of brain metastases this is unknown. In our case, the diagnosis of lung cancer with brain metastasis was the first option both because of the history of smoking and because of the lesion discovered in the chest CT scan at the same time as the diagnosis of brain LOE, this type of tumour being also the one that most frequently metastasises to the brain. However, CT-guided biopsy of the lung lesion did not allow histological confirmation of the diagnosis. Other metastatic tumours to be considered were melanoma (in our case the patient had basal cell carcinoma), digestive and genitourinary tract tumours, although the patient did not present any data to support these diagnoses and the extension study made the latter two unlikely. After the negative extension study, other diagnostic possibilities had to be considered, such as primary CNS tumours (the glioma group is the most frequent at intraparenchymal level), infectious pathology and systemic inflammatory processes. Among the infectious causes, bacterial abscesses, parasitic infections such as cerebral hydatidosis and neurocysticercosis, as well as fungal infections stand out due to their frequency, although in this patient there was no evidence of immunosuppression that would lead to this aetiology being considered. In all of them, the final diagnosis requires histological study of the lesion, which can be obtained by stereotaxic puncture (with less morbidity) or by complete resection of the lesion, as occurred in our case due to the suspicion of malignancy.

Final diagnosis
The anatomopathological study showed an absence of metastases and signs of malignancy, ruling out the neoplastic origin of the lesion. In the pathological anatomy samples, numerous structures of rounded morphology between 4 and 15 microns in diameter were observed, the wall of which showed positive staining with PAS, Grocott and alcian blue, compatible with Cryptococcus neoformans. Culture in aerobic medium and fungal culture medium was reported as Cryptococcus neoformans. The final diagnosis was cryptococcal brain abscess (cryptococcoma) in an immunocompetent patient with a pulmonary nodule presumably of the same aetiology.

Evolution
After surgery the patient had a good initial clinical evolution but subsequently suffered progressive neurological deterioration with decreased level of consciousness and sensory aphasia. A lumbar puncture was performed and normal fluid was obtained, with negative cultures, India ink and latex for cryptococcus. CT scan showed a focal lesion compatible with a brain abscess, and the patient underwent reoperation with removal of the abscess. The microbiological study showed the presence of Klebsiella pneumoniae. After the intervention and antibiotic therapy, the patient presented excellent clinical evolution and complete resolution without subsequent complications. He was finally discharged after completing 6 weeks of treatment with liposomal amphotericin B and flucytosine, and subsequently continued outpatient treatment with fluconazole 800 mg per day for 6 months. After completion of treatment the patient remains asymptomatic with an excellent quality of life and no associated neurological deficit.
