This is a 58-year-old male patient, with no known allergies, with a personal history of arterial hypertension and chronic renal insufficiency known for a year and a herniated disc L5-S1.
He came to the Emergency Department with low-grade fever for five months of intermittent course, with no symptoms on examination except mild epigastralgia together with nausea and sporadic vomiting, denying intestinal transit alterations. No relevant epidemiological history except contact with a correctly vaccinated dog.
On physical examination, he was febrile (37.5oC) and haemodynamically stable (BP 125/68 mmHg, HR 65 beats per minute, oxygen saturation at room air 99%). There was slight discomfort on palpation at the epigastric level, the abdomen was soft and depressible with hydro-aerial sounds present with no signs of peritonism, no masses or megaliths were palpable. The rest of the examination by systems was completely unremarkable, including the absence of thyroid enlargement, skin lesions and/or peripheral adenopathies. As for complementary studies, the haemogram showed mild normocytic anaemia (haemoglobin 11 g/dl) and increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate (59 mm/h). Leukocyte count with differential formula, platelet count and normal coagulation times.
Biochemistry: creatinine 1.23 mg/dl with urea 53.3 mg/dl and C-reactive protein 7.13 mg/dl. The rest of the laboratory parameters were of no relevance (urine systemic, lipid profile, hepatic, bilio-pancreatic, iron, thyroid, immunoglobulins, proteinogram, rheumatoid factor, ACE, tumour markers, autoimmunity and determination of faecal occult blood). Serial blood cultures and smear microscopy were negative, and the wide range of serological tests requested were also negative (HIV, Rose Bengal, Toxoplasma, CMV, EBV, VZV, luetica, atypical mycobacteria, Bartonella henselae, Leishmania, Rickettsia...).
In the field of imaging tests, an ultrasound scan of the abdomen was initially performed, showing probable hepatic steatosis with simple cysts (18x15 mm) in segment II, III and IV of the hepatic parenchyma. Enlarged prostate with calcification in its thickness secondary to previous prostatitis.  In the chest/abdomen CT scan, a noteworthy finding was the presence of supracardial mediastinal adenopathies (the largest at the pretracheal and retrocaval level with an axis of 8.5 mm, other smaller ones at the prevascular level and at the aortopulmonary window). Bilateral hilar adenopathies (the largest on the left) with an axis of 1 cm without parenchymal alteration. At the abdominal level, small cystic liver formations compatible with biliary cysts and small retrocrural, mesenteric and retroperitoneal adenopathies of non-significant size were observed. Echocardiography showed no evidence of vegetations. A diagnostic test was performed during his hospital stay.

Differential diagnosis
For the differential diagnosis it is important to take a thorough clinical history and physical examination, in addition to assessing those processes that may cause fever and polyadenopathic symptoms of generalised distribution, including infections, systemic diseases and neoplasms, among the most common causes. The main causal microorganisms that can cause generalised lymphadenopathy are:
1. Bacteria: Leptospira, Brucella, Ehrlichia, Listeria, Yersinia, Mycoplasma tuberculosis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Treponema pallidum, Francisella turalensis, Bartonella, Tropheryma whipplei and Anaplasma phagocytophilum.
2. Viruses: Herpes viruses (EBV, CMV, VZV, VHH-6), HIV, HBV, HAV, Parvovirus B19, Measles, Dengue, West Nile Fever.
3. Fungi: Cryptococcus, Histoplasma, Coccidiodides, Toxoplasma, Leishmania (kala-azar), Trypanosomes and Filarias.

The differential diagnosis of fever and polyadenopathy should include, in acute forms, a reaction to drugs (hydantoins, allopurinol, isoniazid, carbamazepine, among others), immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) and Kawasaki disease, and in subacute or chronic forms, angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy, lymphoproliferative syndromes, mixed cryoglobulinaemia, systemic mastocytosis, lymphoid metaplasia, Kikuchi, Castleman and Rosai-Dorfman disease, sarcoidosis, some periodic fever syndromes, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), Still's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, serum sickness, hyperthyroidism, histiocytosis and amyloidosis among others less frequent.
In our case, given the prolonged chronology of the clinical manifestations and the absence of use of the aforementioned drugs, it seems unlikely that the clinical manifestations are due to a pharmacological reaction. We also exclude from the differential diagnosis a possible episode of immune reconstitution or Kawasaki disease as the clinical picture is not considered to be of recent onset, so we will focus on chronic forms and infectious causes.
In the case of chronic forms, the patient did not present typical symptoms of hyperthyroidism such as weight loss, tachycardia and the thyroid profile was strictly normal, so this option was rejected, as was the possibility of SLE, in favour of slight anaemia but with the rest of the series values within the normal range and autoimmunity was negative and the patient did not present typical diagnostic criteria such as serositis, arthralgia, photosensitivity. As described above, the patient did not present polyarticular symptoms or skin lesions, manifestations present in Still's disease together with fever, so we do not consider this syndrome as a diagnosis of certainty. Kikuchi's disease is a rare disease that tends to affect oriental women between the 2nd and 3rd decade of life, which is not the case here, as this is a 58-year-old male patient. Among the granulomatous diseases, mention should be made of sarcoidosis characterised by polyadenopathic symptoms among other manifestations such as respiratory and visual symptoms, constitutional syndrome, although many patients may be asymptomatic, in the imaging tests the presence of bilateral hilar adenopathies is characteristic, so this entity cannot be ruled out, although the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) values were normal, but these values do not rule out the absence of disease.

One of the causes that cannot be completely ruled out is the presence of a concomitant lymphoproliferative syndrome, although it is true that the patient has no B symptoms or previous constitutional symptoms, but this must be taken into account as one of the most plausible diagnoses. Among the infectious causes, first of all, mentioning pathologies caused by M. tuberculosis can simulate a wide range of pathologies; in our patient there was no epidemiological history or characteristic radiological pattern, and the tuberculin test and smear microscopy were negative. In the anamnesis, he denied risky relationships, consumption of parenteral toxic substances or previous transfusions, with negative serology tests for HIV, syphilis, HBV, HCV and HAV, ruling out these pathologies as being responsible for the clinical picture. Our patient had contact with a correctly vaccinated dog but denied having been bitten by a dog that could have caused skin lesions.
We ruled out microorganisms that usually occur in immunocompromised patients, other agents to be taken into account in this case being CMV, EBV and toxoplasma, whose serologies were negative. Finally, T. whipplei is a gram-positive bacterium that can cause a multisystemic disease with a wide range of clinical manifestations, including prolonged fever with no apparent focal point, abdominal pain and the presence of generalised lymphadenopathy, which is a rare disease and can go unnoticed if it is not considered in the differential diagnosis.

Evolution
In addition to the complementary tests described above, given the abdominal symptoms, an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed, showing moderate oedema together with multiple whitish rice-grain deposits in the second portion of the duodenum, and biopsies were taken.
During his admission to the ward he evolved favourably, presenting a fever peak of 38oC on only one occasion, with negative blood cultures as mentioned above. On discharge he was asymptomatic and afebrile, and was referred to the Infectious Diseases outpatient department for follow-up, pending histological results of the biopsy.
At this point, we can make an initial clinical judgement of prolonged intermittent fever with no focal point and generalised lymphadenopathy pending completion of the study, with lesions of the duodenal mucosa pending anatomopathological diagnosis.
Once the results of the pathological anatomy were obtained, which showed histiocytes with foamy cytoplasm in the lamina propria showing PAS-positive bacilli (mucosal fragments compatible with Whipple's disease) with positive PCR determination of the endoscopic sample for T. whipplei, the diagnosis being conclusive.
Following the results, scheduled admission was decided to start intravenous treatment with Ceftriaxone (2 g iv/day) for 2 weeks, followed by oral treatment with Trimetropin-Sulfamethoxazole (160/800 mg 2 tablets/12 hours) on an outpatient basis. The patient was reviewed at the last consultation 14 months after starting treatment, and the patient was found to be asymptomatic with remission of febrile syndrome. A control endoscopic study was performed with no evidence of alterations at the level of the second duodenal portion, with a new PCR test negative for T. whipplei and inflammatory parameters within normal limits. After the above, it was decided to end antibiotic treatment and the patient was discharged.

Final diagnosis
Whipple's disease
