A 27-year-old woman, pregnant at 31 weeks, with a history of malaria diagnosed and treated in her country (she had not taken chemoprophylaxis against this disease). A native of Equatorial Guinea, she returned to Spain a week before the start of the clinic. For four days, the patient reported abdominal discomfort, predominantly in the hypogastrium, together with dysuria and febrile syndrome with a temperature of 38-39°C. She denied risky sexual relations and denied any risky sexual activity.
She denied risky sexual relations and toxic habits. Poor vaccination schedule. No consumption of unpasteurised dairy products, no bathing in fresh water or ingestion of contaminated food and water.
Physical examination showed a good general appearance. Conscious and oriented, without neurological focality. Temperature 39.3 oC. Blood pressure 85/50 mmHg without hypoperfusion. Rhythmic heart tones at 120 beats per minute, without murmurs or rubbing and preserved vesicular murmur without pathological noises. Abdomen typical of gestational age, not painful. No oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis in the lower extremities. Pulses present and symmetrical.
Initial complementary tests were: haemogram: normocytic and normochromic anaemia, absence of leukocytosis. Coagulation and biochemistry were normal. CRP 107.8 mg/L.

Differential diagnosis
This is a VFR (Visiting Friends and Relatives) patient who consulted for febrile syndrome, abdominal discomfort and dysuria of four days' evolution. Complementary laboratory tests showed anaemia and platelets at the lower limit of normality. The anamnesis highlighted the epidemiological history of coming from Equatorial Guinea a week earlier and that he had never taken antimalarial chemoprophylaxis.
The initial differential diagnosis should focus on febrile syndrome in a patient from a tropical area. The most important disease to rule out in travellers with fever on return from the tropics is malaria, especially if the patient comes from an endemic area, both because of its potential severity and frequency of presentation. In these areas, high-risk groups for developing severe malaria and its consequences include young children and pregnant women. In some series malaria accounts for up to 30% of febrile illnesses in travellers from that region of the world. Patients often present with non-specific symptoms and may mimic a minor viral illness. Patients may present with tachycardia, tachypnoea, chills, malaise, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, micturition or respiratory symptoms. Haematological manifestations are frequent, with thrombopenia being detected in 62-83% and anaemia in 41% of cases2. However, anaemia can have a multifactorial cause due to gestation and deficiencies of iron and other nutrients, as well as helminth infections. With regard to the study of febrile syndrome on return from the tropics, it is essential to record in the clinical history the exposures and risk activities that may be associated with potential infections. In our case, our patient did not report having bathed in freshwater areas (rivers, lakes, etc.) in Equatorial Guinea, making schistosomiasis (Katayama fever) and leptospirosis less likely. He denied having had risky sexual contacts leading to acute HIV infection, or to the transmission of other STDs. Nor had she consumed unsanitised dairy products, which would lead us to suspect brucellosis fever. He had not presented exanthema (suggestive of Borrelia spp infection), skin rash or haemorrhagic manifestations. Nevertheless, in patients from the tropics, infections caused by arboviruses, such as Dengue, transmitted by the bite of the Aedes mosquito, endemic in Central and South America, should be studied. Incubation time is 4 to 7 days (with a range of 3 to 10 days). The infection has an initial course with biphasic fever, headache, severe myalgia and macular or papulomacular rash present in up to half of the cases. Occasionally, it progresses to a life-threatening condition (severe or haemorrhagic dengue). Diagnosis is usually made retrospectively by serology or in the first few days by PCR.
In recent years, Chikungunya virus infection, also caused by arboviruses, has gained importance, endemic in Africa and with outbreaks in Asia, Europe, islands in the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and in the Americas. It is transmitted by the bite of the Aedes mosquito with an incubation period of 1 to 14 days. It is characterised by the presence of fever, polyarthralgias and arthritis and skin manifestations (macular rash) in up to 40-75% of patients. Diagnosis is made by virus PCR or serology.
In any fever of unknown origin, arthropod-borne Rickettsiosis must be ruled out. Symptoms usually appear within two weeks and are characterised by high fever lasting 2-3 weeks, headache, intense myalgia, chills and rash on the limbs, affecting palms and soles and spreading rapidly to the trunk, although it may also be absent. Other manifestations include hepatomegaly or splenomegaly, thrombopenia and disseminated intravascular coagulation. If we study the cases of fever in travellers returning from the tropics, 11% of them present symptoms of respiratory infection, which could be initially ruled out in our case given the absence of symptoms. The most frequent causes are viral upper respiratory tract infections, bronchitis, viral and bacterial pneumonias. Among the latter, there are a greater number of atypical aetiologies. Other aetiologies such as histoplasmosis, viral hepatitis and meningitis could be ruled out, remembering that the patient did not report activities in caves or ruins, which is the most common form of inhalation of spores, her liver profile in the analysis was normal and there was no evidence of neurological symptoms or meningeal signs in the examination.
In contrast, gastrointestinal and urinary tract infections should be taken into account, as these were the guiding symptoms.
Enteric fever is an infectious disease caused by Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi and Salmonella enterica serotype Paratyphi A.B.C. To be taken into account as its mechanism of transmission is faecal-oral through contaminated food and water, with a high prevalence in endemic areas (more than 100 cases per 100,000 inhabitants/year). It most commonly affects children and young adults. The incubation period is usually 6 to 30 days and the onset is insidious. The predominant symptoms are fever, headache, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting and chills. However, there are classic symptoms such as bradycardia and dicrotic pulse and pinkish spots on the trunk and abdomen that are not present in our patient, as well as hepatosplenomegaly and altered transaminases. Blood cultures are positive in 50-70% of cases. Currently, there are two vaccines (oral and parenteral) with 64-95% effectiveness.

Evolution
With the above clinical, epidemiological and analytical data, the following tests are carried out in parallel:
- Rapid malaria diagnostic test (panmalarial and P. falciparum antigens): positive.
- Thick blood drop: P. falciparum with parasitaemia level between 8-10%.
- Urine and blood cultures were also requested without isolation of microorganisms.
- Serology: Negative for lue (CLIA); negative for CMV IgM, positive for CMV IgG; negative for HIV (ELISA); negative for Parvovirus B19 IgM, negative for Parvovirus B19 IgG; positive for HAV IgG; negative for HAV IgM; HBV anti-HBs ' 1000 mIU/ml, positive for HBc, negative for HBs Ag; negative for HCV; negative for rubella IgG, negative for rubella IgM; negative for Toxoplasma IgG and IgM.
He was admitted to the intensive care unit with a diagnosis of P. falciparum malaria with severity criteria, and intravenous (IV) treatment with artesunate (5 doses of 2.4 mg/kg at 0, 12, 24, 48 and 72 hours) with daily monitoring of parasitaemia. At 24 hours parasitaemia was 0.5% (undetectable at 48 hours). Subsequently, he was transferred to the Infectious Diseases ward where he completed sequential treatment with 3 tablets of oral Eurartesim® for 3 days (120 mg/day of piperaquine + 960 mg of dihydroartemisinin).

Final diagnosis
Plasmodium falciparum malaria with severity criteria (parasitaemia greater than 5%).
