Male, born in May 1986, single, older of two brothers, working shifts since the age of 18, lives with his parents.

Family history
No family history of psychiatric interest.

Personal history
Full-term birth. Normal psychomotor development. No known allergies. No cranioencephalic trauma. No spontaneous loss of consciousness. No seizures. Clinically evident hypothyroidism since the age of 16 years on levothyroxine. No diabetes. Morbid obesity since the age of 16 with current BMI (22 years) of 34.2%. Acknowledges sporadic excessive alcohol consumption. Denies using other psychoactive substances. Pre-morbid life curve Until the age of 13 he was a loving boy, a good student, obedient, and participated in family and school activities. At the age of 14, after the death of his grandfather and a change of address, his behaviour changed, becoming irascible, with bad answers, altercations with friends that he gradually abandoned, afraid to sleep, disinterested in his studies, eating compulsively, making "suicidal" gestures to his parents when he was opposed or forbidden to do something. From the age of 16 onwards his behaviour worsens, he becomes isolated, taciturn and frequently expresses death wishes. At the age of 17 he started treatment with a psychologist and pharmacological treatment with fluoxetine (20 mg/day), topiramate (200 mg/day) and amisulpride (100 mg/day), with a decrease in irascibility but persisting apathy, anxiety, compulsion to eat and disinterest in social activities. In November 2005, clomipramine (75 mg/day) was added, with a worsening of irritability, intense asthenia and dysphoric-anxious mood.

Current illness
He was seen for the first time in our clinic in February 2006. Psychopathological examination revealed unmotivated sadness, feelings of emptiness, severe anhedonia, death wishes, suicidal ideas, social withdrawal, insomnia, staying in bed until midday, even up to an hour before going to work, explosive behaviour in the face of frustration, without hallucinations or delusions. Topiramate (300 mg/day) and duloxetine (60 mg/day) were started, treatment which, together with psychotherapy, was maintained throughout 2006 and 2007. During this time he has had three episodes of drunkenness, denies using illegal substances, sleeps anarchically, occasionally has "black" thoughts (death wishes, believes that no effort produces results, does not feel happy) that he experiences as intrusive, which usually appear after some conflict with family norms or rules that he transgresses, lacks long-term goals and is inconsistent in what he sets out to do. He is angry when he is contradicted or when his opinion is against his criteria. No anxiety, euthymic mood. In November 2007, he had an episode of unmotivated sadness, "I have everything but nothing makes me happy", feelings of inability to cope with responsibilities, consumption of cannabis alone and at night, starting a period of excessive spending, basically on pets, which he then neglected. During the following 15 days, he presented almost total insomnia, unproductive hyperactivity, excessive spending, prepares a trip and the afternoon before starting it, he is surprised by his mother filling a bath gel bottle with hashish pellets, reacting choleric, leaving home and verbalising suicidal ideas. The family found him 4 hours later wandering in a park near the house. When examined the following day, at the end of November 2007, he reported not remembering anything of what had happened the previous day, which he attributed to the fact that he had not slept for two days, working one day in the morning shift and the next in the afternoon, denying the excessive spending behaviour, arguing that it was an investment to later sell the pets, He admits having thought of different ways of taking his own life and admits daily cannabis consumption (6-8 joints/day) during the last three weeks, testing positive in the urinalysis of the sample collected that same day. The intensity of the episode exceeds that expected due to the amount of cannabis consumed. Olanzapine (2.5 mg/day) was added to the treatment, while cannabis withdrawal was controlled, and behaviour and affect normalised in 72 hours. After 15 days olanzapine was discontinued. Since then, cannabis withdrawal has been monitored with regular blood tests. He has not presented any new episodes up to the date of the last review in October 2008.

Treatment
Since 2006 he has been undergoing joint psychotherapeutic and psychopharmacological treatment. The former is cognitive-behavioural and the latter is based on topiramate (also for its action on weight) and duloxetine. In the hypomanic episode of November 2007, 2.5 mg/day of olanzapine was added to the 300 mg/day of topiramate and 60 mg/day of duloxetine for three weeks. He is currently undergoing cognitive behavioural therapy, together with topiramate, duloxetine and random urine monitoring, which he voluntarily submits to.

Clinical judgement
Axis I: F34.1.- Early-onset dysthymic disorder, without atypical symptoms (main diagnosis) F31.0 Bipolar I disorder, most recent hypomanic episode, complete recovery.
F12.1.1.- Cannabis abuse
Axis II: F60.31.- Borderline personality disorder (meets criteria 2,4,5,6,7,8).
AXIS III: Hypothyroidism (E03, ICD-10).
AXIS IV: no appreciable psychosocial stress.
AXIS V: G.A.F. in the last year: 65

Substance use
In the anamnesis, only occasional alcohol abuse appears, always on the occasion of going out at the weekend with a friend or at celebrations at work, never alone or in relation to dysphoric mood alterations or psychosocial stress. He has never admitted to using cannabis until the episode of November 2007, in which the use of cannabis is verified by urinalysis.
