A 52-year-old patient with no personal history of interest made a first visit to the emergency department after suffering 72 hours previously a cranioencephalic trauma with a cabinet, without associated loss of consciousness. He reported headache, of low intensity but continuous, and located in the left frontoparietal area. After a normal neurological examination, it was decided to request a cranial CAT scan, which revealed a small left frontal cephalohematoma, and he was discharged from hospital with the usual analgesia. Twenty days after the trauma, the patient visited the emergency department again due to a torpid evolution, with worsening of the headache and fever of up to 39-40oC.

Physical examination: Blood pressure: 148/54; Heart rate: 91 bpm. Temperature: 38.1oC; Glasgow 15. Cardiopulmonary auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds. Bilateral normoventilation. Abdomen: soft, depressible, non-painful. Neurologically: normoreactive pupils. No neurological focality or motor or sensory deficit in the extremities. In the skull, left frontoparietal region, there was an erythematous area with a fluctuating mass effect on palpation. Emergency laboratory tests: 13,900 leukocytes (83% neutrophils); Hb 12.3 g/dL; Hto 36.6%; 175,000 platelets; Fibrinogen 7.1 g/L. Urea 34; Creatinine 0.77mg/dL. Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm 90x, without acute repolarisation alterations. Chest X-ray: cardiomediastinal silhouette and pulmonary vascularisation within normality. No findings of acute evolution. A differential diagnosis of cutaneous abscess or neoplasm was considered, so a cranial CT scan was requested, which revealed an image of an epicranial collection in the left frontal region, measuring around 16 x 45 mm in diameter (AP and transverse, respectively), with thick enhancement of the wall, with an inflammatory appearance. In the underlying bone there is an image of a mottled osteolytic lesion, with irregular and poorly defined margins, with destruction of both diploic tables. It is associated with a central interdiploic osteosclerotic image, consistent with sequestration. This radiological image is suggestive of osteomyelitis with associated epicranial abscess and cellulitis. In this context, there is a tiny intracranial epidural inflammatory component, with annular enhancement, barely 1 cm in size, consistent with a tiny abscess. Following the results of the cranial CAT scan and after assessment by the neurosurgery department, scheduled surgical treatment was decided, under general anaesthesia, and a parasagittal incision was made, with abundant purulent material coming out. Bone destroyed by osteomyelitis was visualised, which was removed by craniectomy, with resection of about 4 x 5 cm of bone. After removal of the affected bone, infiltration of the dura mater was observed, so dural excision was decided, which revealed subarachnoid empyema, so the surgery was completed with a brain biopsy. A dura mater plasty was placed and epidural drainage was left in place. The patient was admitted to the ICU for postoperative control, and was afebrile at all times, with good wound evolution, under antibiotic treatment controlled by the infectious diseases service, modified according to culture results (multiple gram+ and gram- anaerobic bacilli were isolated). During admission to the neurosurgery department, the patient presented two isolated seizures, for which reason the anti-comaemic treatment was modified. A control CT scan did not show any complications after surgery or collections with haemorrhagic lesions, so, given the good radiological and clinical evolution of the patient, he was discharged from hospital with antibiotic and anticomial treatment, pending review in the neurosurgery department.
