Reason for consultation
Pain and swelling in the left elbow.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
Male, 79 years of age. Personal history: no drug allergies.
Cardiovascular risk factors: type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidaemia. Hyperuricaemia and gout.
Ischaemic heart disease revascularised on 2 occasions in the anterior descending artery in 2012 and 2017.
Non-valvular atrial fibrillation with atrial appendage closure in February 2019. Not anticoagulated due to a history of upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage with clinical melena due to Dabigatran, suspending anticoagulation and keeping the patient on double anti-aggregation. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.
Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome with nocturnal CPAP.
Surgical interventions: Inguinal and umbilical hernia. Left atrial appendage closure.
Baseline life: independent for basic activities of daily living. Preserved higher functions. NYHA functional class III. Lives with his wife. Has 3 children. Good family support.
Usual treatment: ASA 100 mg/24h, Clopidogrel 75 mg/24h, Bisoprolol 5 mg/24h, Ramipril 5 mg/24h, Allopurinol 100 mg/24h, Furosemide 20 mg/24h, Metformin/Empaglifozin every 24h.
Present illness: Patient attended the primary care emergency department for pain and swelling in the left elbow with no history of trauma accompanied by a fever of 38oC for the last 48 hours. Two days ago he attended the health centre due to the onset of pain and was diagnosed as a probable gout attack, treated with Naproxen as on other occasions. Progressively increasing oedema and reddening of the left elbow appeared, accompanied by general malaise, fever and weakness, for which reason he consulted again.

Physical examination
Acceptable general condition. Conscious, oriented and cooperative. Temperature: 37-5oC. BP: 135/75 HR 80 bpm. Sat O2 98% a/a.
Hyperemia and oedema at left elbow with fluctuation at bursa level and increased temperature. Mobility preserved, although limited flexion and extension of the elbow due to pain. No ecchymosis. No crepitus. Good nail filling. Radial pulse preserved. Good colouring of the skin of the forearm with oedema and pitting.

Clinical Judgement
Infectious bursitis of the elbow.

Differential diagnosis: venous thrombosis of the upper limb in a patient with non-anticoagulated AF. Gout attack.

Action plan and evolution
Ceftriaxone 2 g iv was administered and the patient was referred to the hospital emergency department for assessment on suspicion of infectious bursitis, without being able to rule out venous thrombosis in a patient with a history of atrial fibrillation.

In the hospital emergency department, a blood test was performed: normal haemogram with known platelets, CRP 100, D-dimer 900. Referred for rapid infectious diseases consultation within 48 hours and started oral antibiotic treatment at home with Cefadroxil 500 mg/12 h. While waiting for the appointment, the patient persisted with discomfort and pain without further medical consultation.
On consulting the Infectious Diseases Department, a FNA was performed and purulent content was extracted. The patient was admitted for abscess drainage and iv antibiotherapy.
Liquid culture: Methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus. Biochemistry of joint fluid: 170 600 cells, Polymorphonuclear 95%.

During admission, iv cefazolin was administered with good clinical response. Currently the patient is asymptomatic and discharged home.
