A previously healthy 29 year old North American woman, living in Chile for 12 months, consulted for the appearance of a painful lesion, with signs of inflammation and enlargement of the pubic and right vulvar area. She received empirical outpatient therapy with cefadroxil and then clindamycin, without clinical remission, for which she was hospitalised. She had no fever, dysuria or leucorrhoea, but had mild vulvar pruritus. Her partner had no genital lesions.

Laboratory tests including CBC, HSV, C-reactive protein and biochemical profile showed no abnormalities except for a mild eosinophilia of 7.9% (680 cells/mm3), her pregnancy test (B-hCG blood) was negative. Ultrasound examination of soft tissues showed a non-specific inflammatory process of the subcutaneous cellular tissue in the suprapubic region with extension to the right labium majus, with ipsilateral reactive inguinal adenopathy. As the clinical suspicion of cellulitis and vulvar phlegmon remained, iv antibacterial treatment with ceftriaxone and clindamycin was continued. After 48 h, the lesion progressed to the suprapubic area and then to the right iliofemoral area, for which reason vancomycin was added. The lesions were red, warm and pruritic rather than tender. On the sixth day of treatment, the lesion continued to spread to the right iliac fossa and crest. Blood inflammatory parameters remained low, with slightly elevated eosinophils (655 cells/mm3).

The patient's remote history revealed a long business trip to rural areas in several Southeast Asian countries, concluded 12 months prior to consultation, with consumption of raw sea and freshwater fish on multiple occasions. In addition, three months before the genital lesion, the patient reported abdominal symptoms characterised by nausea, abdominal pain and diarrhoea without pathological elements accompanied by fever (five days), myalgias and arthralgias, which lasted for more than three weeks, with a weight loss of five kilos. This episode was studied without finding an aetiological cause and resolved spontaneously without specific therapy.

Due to the migration of the lesion, the presence of eosinophilia, his history of travel and consumption of raw fish, a diagnosis of eosinophilic migratory panniculitis due to gnathostomiasis was proposed. Antibacterials were discontinued, empirical antiparasitic therapy with oral albendazole (400 mg every 12 h) was started and a serum sample was sent to the reference laboratory in Asia (Department of Helminthology, Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand). A serial parasitological examination and Baermann test were negative for parasite eggs and larvae in stool. Serological examination in the laboratory in Bangkok confirmed the diagnosis, detecting IgG antibodies against Gnathostoma spinigerium antigens by immunoblot technique.

Migration of the lesion stopped two days after initiation of antiparasitic treatment, with frank regression of the erythema and appearance of a small, non-painful nodule in the centre, which has been described by biopsy of the lesion, occasionally finding immobile or dead larvae. After eight days of outpatient treatment, the patient underwent a new pregnancy test, which was positive, and the antiparasitic was discontinued. Subsequent 12-month follow-up showed no reactivation of the lesion and no skin and soft tissue symptoms at other sites. As there are cases of relapse, the patient was educated for early consultation in case of recurrence of lesions.
