43-year-old man with no known drug allergies, ex-smoker since the age of 30 years of 15 pack-years and with a personal history of mild mixed dyslipidaemia and probable gastritis due to Helicobacter pylori. Independent for all basic activities of daily living. Chronic treatment with esomeprazole 20 mg and fenofibrate.
Consultation in the emergency department for pain in the right hypochondrium radiating to the epigastrium of 5 months' evolution with worsening in the last few days accompanied by dysphagia to solids, loss of 5 kilograms of weight in the last two months, asthenia and loss of appetite. She has not presented diarrhoea, vomiting, fever, pruritus or profuse sweating.
Examination revealed a temperature of 37.5oC, mucocutaneous pallor, pain in the right hypochondrium and epigastrium and non-painful palpation of two fingers across the spleen. He presented with left axillary and bilateral inguinal lymphadenopathy, non-painful, rolling, 1 centimetre in diameter.
Laboratory tests showed: leukocytes 15800/uL (neutrophils 8000/uL, lymphocytes 5300/uL), haemoglobin 6.8 mg/dL and platelets 46000/uL. The peripheral blood smear showed dysplastic erythroblasts, myelocytes and metamyelocytes, red blood cells in tears or dacryocytes (see attached image) and 1-2% schistocytes, all compatible with leukoerythroblastic syndrome.
Peripheral blood flow cytometry showed a leukoerythroblastic picture with peripheral blood discharge of immature myeloid elements. Chest and abdominal CT scan showed parietal thickening of a duodenal segment, moderate splenomegaly and marked generalised blastomatous bone involvement (possible haematological pathology or metastatic involvement to be assessed). At gastroscopy, the cardia was stenosed and friable. Bone marrow biopsy showed an increase in bone trabeculation, as well as stromal fibrosis with a marked and profound decrease in the cell population affecting all 3 series. Presence of epithelial neoplastic proliferation arranged in small, slightly cohesive epithelial clusters showing epithelial elements with a "signet ring" pattern (see attached image). Immunohistochemistry revealed positivity for cytokeratin AE1/AE3, E-cadherin and very focally for cytokeratin 7. The definitive diagnosis was gastric adenocarcinoma with bone and bone marrow infiltration. The patient was transferred to the Medical Oncology service for treatment and follow-up.
