Reason for consultation
Distal paraesthesias in both lower limbs

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests)
A 55-year-old male patient came to his health centre with a fever of up to 38oC for 5 days, with no other associated symptoms. Examination revealed a hyperemic pharynx with no other findings of interest. He was diagnosed with acute pharyngitis and treated with azithromycin, acetylcysteine and paracetamol.

After 10 days of evolution of the febrile symptoms and once resolved, he consulted again for distal paraesthesia in both lower limbs and in the 3rd-4th finger of the right hand associated with weakness of the quadriceps and a dizzy sensation, while maintaining the ability to walk. She denies swallowing, phonatory and respiratory difficulties. No previous gastrointestinal symptoms. Examination revealed exhaustion and lack of strength when walking on tiptoe and heels and hypoactive osteotendinous reflexes. In view of the findings, his doctor decided to refer him to the hospital emergency department for evaluation of complementary tests and to rule out possible Guillain-Barré Syndrome. A cranial CT scan was performed in the emergency department with the result of a non-specific hyperdense lesion in the left frontal subcortical white matter measuring 9x7mm, without mass effect or associated perilesional oedema that did not show enhancement with the administration of intravenous contrast.

It was decided to admit the patient and during his stay in hospital, the following tests were performed:
General laboratory tests including: blood count; biochemistry with renal, hepatic and ion function; thyrotropin; serology for hepatitis A, B and C viruses, parvovirus B19, Campylobacter jejuni, Treponema pallidum, Borrelia burgdorferi, Cytomegalovirus, Herpes simplex, HIV, rubella and varicella-zoster; ANA; anti-MOG antibodies and anti-ganglioside antibodies: all normal or negative.
Lumbar puncture: protein 87.9, leucocytes 2, neurotropic virus PCR negative. Fluid culture negative.
Cranial MRI for further study of the lesion detected in the CT scan: confirmed left frontal intraparenchymal space-occupying lesion, of heterogeneous intensity, with hyperintense centre and hypointense halo. Findings related to cavernoma.

Electroneurophysiological study: normal. No significant alterations were observed in the sensory-motor conduction or in the reflex response F of the explored nerves of the four extremities (median, ulnar, peroneal, posterior tibial, sural and superficial peroneal nerves).

Family and community approach
He works as a caretaker in two buildings. His wife does not work. He has a daughter with Down's Syndrome. He has the full and complete support of his family during his stay in hospital.

Clinical judgement (differential diagnosis)
Clinical judgement: Guillain-Barré syndrome. Left frontal cavernoma as an incidental finding.
Differential diagnoses that have been ruled out with complementary tests include: Myasthenia Gravis, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Acute viral poliomyelitis, Botulism, Borreliosis (Lyme disease) and acute hypokalemic paralysis.

Action plan and evolution
During his admission, intravenous immunoglobulins were administered with a good and rapid clinical response of the proximal crural weakness.

No treatment was required on discharge. He was reviewed in the Neurology Department two months later, and after a progressive improvement during his admission and in the following days, the patient was asymptomatic. He is scheduled to be seen in Neurology in a year's time.
