A 58-year-old man, with no known drug allergies, operated on in 1985 for lumbar disc disease, appendectomised and operated on for left inguinal hernia in 2012, with no medical history of interest or usual treatment. He was on holiday in Ibiza, where he was from, and had been living in the Dominican Republic for 8 years. She consulted the emergency department due to general malaise of 4 days' evolution that started after landing on arrival in Spain, the following day she began to feel dizziness, very painful generalised arthralgias with little response to anti-inflammatory drugs, asthenia, anorexia, dizziness and occasional blurred vision. On arrival he presented BP 148/89 mmHg, HR 110 bpm, T 38.8 oC and oxygen saturation of 97% breathing room air. On examination he was in fair general condition, normohydrated, normal colour and eupneic at rest with good distal perfusion. Functional impotence of predominance in both shoulders, right wrist and external face of the left ankle, with great limitation of grip in both hands. No signs of arthritis. No rash. Cardiorespiratory and abdominal auscultation with no findings. Examination of normal cranial nerves, normoreactive medium isochoric pupils, without dysmetria or alterations in sensitivity, with a great sensation of instability when standing upright. Blood count, renal function, transaminases, lactate and venous blood gases were normal, CRP 4.16, and the rest of the parameters were normal. Basic urine study was normal. Chest and abdominal X-ray normal. ECG in sinus rhythm, with no evidence of blockages or other acute repolarisation alterations. In view of the disabling arthralgias with fever on returning from an epidemic area for Chikungunya fever, this was the diagnosis of suspicion from the outset. After the first complementary tests on admission, a thick blood drop and P falciparum antigen were requested to rule out Malaria, as well as serology for Dengue, Chikungunya, HIV, HBV, Syphilis and blood cultures. Pending the results, the patient was treated with NSAIDs alone to control fever and pain. On the third day of admission, he started vomiting with haematic debris, then began to have rectal bleeding (up to 7 bowel movements) together with dizziness and a drop in haemoglobin from 14.9 g/dL to 12.1 g/dL. An urgent endoscopy was performed in the ICU due to the evolution of more than 24 hours with upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage where the following was observed: red blood haematic remains of probable duodenal origin, single 1 cm duodenal ulcer in the postbulbar area, antero-superior face, visible vessel without active bleeding IIa. Adrenaline was injected in the periulcer area and 4 haemostasis clips were placed. Given the objective lesion with a risk of rebleeding, the patient was admitted for monitoring, with good subsequent evolution. The control endoscopy ruled out signs of bleeding. Once on the ward, just over 24 hours after the first endoscopy, he progressed satisfactorily with partial pain control without gastrointestinal NSAIDs (Paracetamol 1g ev every 8 hours, alternating with Metamizole 2g every 8 hours) and maintaining occasional febrile fever. At the time of discharge, negative serology for HIV, HBV and syphilis, in addition to a Malaria study and negative haemocultures, pending the rest of the results in the follow-up by the Internal Medicine Infectious Diseases outpatient department. Treatment recommended at discharge for pain control with Paracetamol alternating with Metamizole, together with H. Pylori herradicant therapy. Serology would confirm a few weeks later the diagnosis of Chikungunya fever, with negativity for Dengue fever.
