41-year-old male, no known adverse drug reactions, smoker of 6 cigarettes a day, denies other toxins. His personal history includes depression after the death of his parents, and erectile dysfunction without organic cause. He has undergone surgery for perianal fistula and ankle osteosynthesis due to an accident. He does not undergo treatment on a regular basis. From a rural area, in contact with cattle, dogs and cats. She denies consumption of unpasteurised products, as well as recent trips, bites and risky sexual contacts. Family history: father died as a result of colon cancer. The patient came to the emergency department with fever of up to 40oC, headache and intense asthenia, of five days' evolution, with no other accompanying symptoms. On examination, he was haemodynamically stable, tachycardic and had painful hepatomegaly. No skin or joint involvement. Laboratory tests showed pancytopenia: haemoglobin (Hb) 12.8 mg/dl, leukocytes 3,910/mm3, platelets 43,000/mm3 (Normal: 150,000-450. 000), increased transaminases: aspartate aminotransferase - AST - 297 U/L (N:0-37), alanine aminotransferase - ALT - 354 U/L (N: 0-40), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 1536 U/L (N: < 460) and C-reactive protein (CRP) 220 mg/L (N: 1-4). Renal function and ions were within normal values. Serial blood cultures, urine cultures and serology were drawn. Chest X-ray with no images of condensation. Abdominal ultrasound showed the spleen at the upper limit of normality (12.7 cm).
Suspicion of zoonosis was raised on the basis of the medical history and treatment with doxycycline was started. During admission the fever was well tolerated, progressively decreasing, until there was only one episode per day, without sweating. There were no episodes of bleeding or haematomas. Blood cultures were repeatedly negative, as was the urine culture. Serology showed a past infection with cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), negative hepatotropic viruses. Coxiella burnetii, Bartonella quintana and B. henselae, Leptospira spp., Rickettsia spp., Brucella sp., Toxoplasma gondii negative and pending parvovirus B19, and also 2nd serology. Malaria antigen and Giemsa stain negative.
Serology for Leishmania spp. was requested, but due to lack of availability in the microbiology laboratory it was not performed. For the diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), both serology and quantitative determination of viral load were performed, and both were negative. Mantoux and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) were requested and were negative. Microscopy of samples stained with Ziehl-Neelsen stains showed no evidence of acid-fast bacilli (AFB), and the mycobacterial culture obtained at this time was also negative after the 46-day study period. At the next analytical control, there was an improvement in both transaminases and inflammatory parameters. Reticulocytes were 3.04% (N: 0.5-1.5), suggesting a peripheral origin of the anaemia. The direct Coombs' test was positive, suggesting haemolytic anaemia. In the peripheral blood smear, no morphological alterations were observed that would point to the origin of the pancytopenia, so the haematology department was contacted. A bone marrow aspirate and biopsy were performed, and a direct cytohistochemical study was requested, together with staining and culture to rule out infection by mycobacteria, leishmaniasis and Brucella; no abnormalities were reported in the staining or cytometry. During the time of admission the patient remained asymptomatic, except for the presence of isolated, well-tolerated episodes of fever without sweating that subsided with antipyretics, and he was haemodynamically stable. It was agreed with the patient to continue the study on an outpatient basis.

However, the patient was readmitted after 3 days due to persistence of fever despite antipyretic treatment, and the febrile syndrome began to be poorly tolerated. The physical examination was unremarkable, and in the analytical control the pancytopenia persisted. A CT scan of the chest and abdomen revealed small non-specific mediastinal lymphadenopathies, mild splenomegaly (13.6 cm) and retrocrural and periaortic lymphadenopathies. The bone marrow biopsy was repeated, showing a poor representation of the myeloid series and dysplastic megakaryocytes, with mild fibrosis. Cytology ruled out lymphomatous infiltration. An autoimmune study was requested, initially anti-smooth muscle antibodies and antinuclear antibodies (ANA) were positive (nucleolar pattern 1/160), subsequently normalising. The proteinogram and tumour markers were normal. Elevation of triglycerides (TG) 211 mg/dl (N<150) and ferritin, 4190 ng/ml (N 12-300 in males). The patient developed jaundice, with worsening liver function: GOT and GPT>1000 U/l, total bilirubin 8-16 mg/dl (N: 0.0-1.0) at the expense of the direct fraction, elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT).

A transjugular liver biopsy was performed, showing submassive necrosis of probably toxic origin, as well as abundant ferric pigment in the Kupffer cells. In this context, liver MRI was requested, where moderate iron overload was observed, with no images of masses. The liver sample was stained with Congo Red stain, which was negative.

Differential diagnosis
The differential diagnosis in a young male with high fever of community origin, pancytopenia and liver alterations should include mainly pathology of infectious causes such as those detailed below, especially in our environment: bacterial: zoonosis, tuberculous and non-tuberculous mycobacterial infections; parasites (malaria and leishmaniasis), viral (HIV, hepatotropic viruses, parvovirus B19). On the other hand, haematological diseases with malignant invasion of MO (myelofibrosis, leukaemia, lymphoma) or myelodysplastic syndromes. Haemophagocytic syndrome would also be included in the differential diagnosis, as well as other liver diseases and autoimmune diseases. Possible toxic effects of pharmacological or chemical agents (cytotoxins, benzene, antiepileptics, etc.) should always be included in the differential diagnosis. Infiltrative diseases such as Gaucher disease, haemochromatosis or amyloidosis are also considered as potential causes of splenomegaly.

Evolution
Serologies were repeated and were positive for IgG and IgM of parvovirus B19, the rest negative. Given the persistence of pancytopenia, the bone marrow study was repeated, where haemophagocytosis was observed: proliferation of histiocytes of normal morphology with intense phagocytic activity of haemopoietic cells. No parasites were found.
The diagnosis of haemophagocytic syndrome was confirmed on the basis of the following criteria: fever, compatible cytology, splenomegaly and cytopenias in all three series. The bone marrow study did not reveal the presence of parasites or other microorganisms. The reactivation of a parvovirus B19 infection evidenced by serology is now postulated as a possible cause.

Given the poor clinical evolution of the patient, with worsening liver function, the Haematology Department accepted the patient and started chemotherapy treatment for SHF with Etoposide and Dexamethasone, according to the HLH-94 protocol. After the first cycle of chemotherapy, there was an improvement in the hepatic parameters, to the point of complete normalisation, so it was not necessary to add cyclosporine.

Two months later, the patient was discharged from haematology for outpatient follow-up. However, given the persistence of fever and pancytopenia, and despite not being included in the protocol for action in the case of haemophagocytic syndrome, a repeat bone marrow study was performed, and the cytology showed Leishmania spp. amastigotes, with an absence of haemophagocytosis. In view of this circumstance, and in order to date the chronology of the leishmaniasis, a sample of the patient from the serum collection of the Microbiology laboratory was used, corresponding to the first admission, and given that the technique was already available, serology for Leishmania spp. was requested. This was positive, indicating that the patient was already infected by Leishmania spp. at the beginning of the symptoms, despite not having been documented in the repeated bone marrow studies.

Final diagnosis
The final diagnosis is haemophagocytic syndrome secondary to visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in an immunocompetent patient, who secondarily develops acute hepatitis with submassive necrosis and acute liver failure.
