A 38-year-old non-smoking, non-drinking woman with a history of migraine headache and a single attack in 2005. Diagnosed 10 days earlier with: Multiple Myeloma Bence-Jones Lambda Stage IIIA, associated with deterioration of renal function as the first clinical manifestation: Myeloma kidney, which required a renal biopsy and the start of induction treatment with chemotherapy with boluses of i.v. Dexamethasone. The patient consulted for intense holocranial headache, asthenia, vomiting, fever up to 39oC, paraesthesia in the left shoulder, and commented on the inability to remember in the short term. Physical examination revealed an alteration of higher functions, with bradypsychia, alteration of short-term memory, emotional lability, nominative aphasia, nuchal rigidity, but with negative Kerning and Bruzinsky. Laboratory tests were requested: haemoglobin 9.2 mg/dl, leukocytosis, creatinine 1.87mg/dl, rest normal. Urine sediment showed pyuria and empirical treatment with ceftriaxone was started. Blood and urine cultures were taken without microbiological isolation. Chest and abdominal X-rays were normal. Given the clinical manifestations, a non-contrast cranial CT scan was requested with normal results, and a lumbar puncture of non-traumatic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was performed (leukocytes 1342/mm3; polymorphonuclear: 3.1%; mononuclear 97%, red blood cells 1000/mm3; ADA, glucose and proteins normal), together with culture and Gram stain of CSF; serology for HSV, HIV, CMV, Toxoplasma.

Results
Given the patient's clinical manifestations and CSF analysis compatible with probable viral vs. decapitated bacterial encephalitis, empirical treatment was started with acyclovir iv adjusted to renal function, ceftriaxone, vancomycin and ampicillin. Cultures, Gram stain, HIV, CMV, Toxoplasma serology were negative. IgG serology for HSV was positive. Contrast-enhanced brain magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) was requested, which showed: extensive subcortical cortico-subcortical hyperintense lesion in left anterior temporal T2, insula, hippocampus and basal ganglia with mass effect and slight midline deviation of 3-4mm, and haemorrhagic necrotic component in its interior, and slight right temporal involvement. PCR was requested for Enterovirus, Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV), Varicella Zoster Virus, Cytomegalovirus, with a positive result for HSV-1.

Final Diagnosis
Left temporal herpetic encephalitis with mild right involvement.
