Personal history
Male, 56 years old. No known drug allergies. No known cardiological history. Behçet's disease (pulmonary aneurysms in the right lung, surgery in 1995). Chronic hepatitis B. Home treatment: ASA 300 mg, peginterferon alfa 2a, entecavir.

Present illness
She has been suffering from generalised asthenia for about 15 days, with chest pain on exertion, which subsides immediately when she stops. No orthopnoea, no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea. No pre/syncope. No fever or dysthymic sensation in the previous days.

Physical examination
BP 123/79 mmHg. HR 41 bpm. Ta 35.2°C. Conscious, oriented, cooperative. Good general condition. Eupneic on ambient air. Head and neck: no IVY at 45o. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, no extra sounds. Abdomen: soft, depressible, non-painful. No organomegaly. Extremities: no oedema. No evidence of deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: high degree AV block with 2:1 conduction. QRS 130 ms. QRS axis at -60o. Bifascicular block (BRDHH + HAI) with ventriculophasic sinus arrhythmia. Chest X-ray: no evidence of acute pleuropulmonary pathology. Loss of right lung volume and metallic density material in the lower portion of the ipsilateral hemithorax in relation to surgical history. Cardiopericardial silhouette of normal size. Annular calcifications projecting on the cardiac silhouette, already present in the previous study. CBC: leukocytes 2,890/uL (N 50.2 %, L 34.9 %). Hb 12.9 g/dl. Platelets 93,000/uL. INR 1.12. TPPA Ratio 1.12. Glucose 83 mg/dl. Urea 65 mg/dl. Creat 0.74 mg/dl. Na 143. K 4.5. Troponin I: < 0.017 ng/dl.
Echocardiogram: left ventricle not dilated, with preserved ejection fraction. Trivalve aortic valve, with good opening and slight central insufficiency. Left atrium not dilated. Mitral valve with good opening, diastolic mitral regurgitation. Aortic root not dilated. Right chambers not dilated, good right ventricular contractility. Mild tricuspid insufficiency. No pericardial effusion.
Coronary angiography: left coronary trunk without lesions. Anterior descending: calcified aneurysmal dilatation of the proximal wall with slowing of distal flow. Circumflex: large aneurysmal dilatation at proximal level, calcified, with partial thrombosis of the lumen, which conditions flow slowing at distal level. Right coronary artery: no lesions.
Aortography: no aneurysmal dilatation. Coronary CT scan: coronary saccular aneurysms in circumflex (partially thrombosed and with a 3-4 mm neck) and in the anterior descending artery (not thrombosed and seated on a 15 mm long dysplastic artery segment).


EVOLUTION
A 56-year-old patient was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit for 2:1 AV block with wide QRS and symptoms compatible with recent-onset exertional angina. Coronary angiography was performed, showing evidence of anterior descending artery with calcified aneurysmal dilatation of the proximal wall with slowing of distal flow, proximal circumflex artery with large aneurysmal dilatation, calcified, with partial thrombosis of the lumen, leading to slowing of distal flow. The case was discussed in a medical-surgical session and coronary surgery was decided upon, prior to the implantation of a permanent pacemaker. The convenience of temporarily suspending treatment with peginterferon alfa in order to improve the leukocyte and platelet count figures as much as possible in preparation for surgery was discussed at the session. In this regard, he was assessed by Hepatology and they recommended suspending peginterferon for the surgery and resuming it as soon as possible after the operation. On 21 October 2016, an EPS was performed, which revealed infra-Hisian AV block, and a definitive bicameral pacemaker was subsequently implanted without complications. Post-implantation controls of the pacemaker showed adequate functioning of the device. He was stable cardiovascular and asymptomatic, with no evidence of HF, and was discharged from hospital for admission the following week for cardiac surgery.
On 4 November 2016, coronary revascularisation surgery with a double "Y" mammary artery under ECC was scheduled. Bypass of the left mammary artery to the anterior descending artery and of the right mammary artery to the obtuse marginal artery was performed. Distal and proximal ligation of the anterior descending aneurysm was also performed. Intervention without complications. Postoperative resuscitation without incident.

DIAGNOSIS
Behçet's disease. 2:1 infra-Hisian atrioventricular blockade. Implantation of a definitive bicameral pacemaker. Ischaemic heart disease due to coronary aneurysms. Coronary revascularisation with double mammary artery to anterior descending and obtuse marginal. Ligation of anterior descending aneurysm.
