A 22-year-old male patient from Paraguay with recently diagnosed HIV infection. He consulted for progressive holocranial headache, intensity 10/10, associated with vomiting and decreased bilateral visual acuity, of 20 days of evolution. These symptoms were also accompanied by unquantified weight loss, asthenia, adynamia, hyporexia and intermittent febrile registers. On physical examination, the patient was in fair general condition, with marked pallor of the skin and mucous membranes, stiff neck and bilateral blurred vision. There were no signs of motor focus. There was palpable hepatosplenomegaly and a left laterocervical lymph node conglomerate, with mobile, duroelastic adenopathies, not adhered to deep planes. Dermatological examination showed few papules and acneiform lesions on the dorsum.
On admission, a computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain ruled out the presence of space-occupying lesions. Fundus examination showed papillae without defined borders compatible with oedema. Lumbar puncture was performed and clear cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was obtained with proteinorrachy of 0.28 g/L, glucorrachy 51 g/L and 4 cells/uL (100% mononuclear). Opening pressure was 45 cm H2O. Indian ink preparation of CSF sediment showed capsulated yeasts compatible with Cryptococcus sp. Laboratory findings on admission were: HtO 29%, Hb 9.6 g/L, WBC 2700/mm3, platelets 87. 000/mm3, prothrombin concentration 68%, urea 16 mg%, creatinine 0.9 mg%, TGO 20 IU/L, TGP 27 IU/L. CD4+ T lymphocyte count: 21 cells/μL (8%), plasma viral load for HIV: 23,238 copies per mL (log10 4.37) and Ag RK39: negative. Cryptococcus antigenorrhoea was positive with titre > 1/1,000 and antigenemia was positive > 1/10,000. 
CSF culture revealed Cryptococcus neoformans.
Serology by immunodiffusion and counterimmunoelectrophoresis for H. capsulatum was negative in both serum and CSF.
Chest X-ray showed an excavated infiltrate in the right lung apex.
With an initial diagnosis of disseminated cryptococcosis with meningoencephalic involvement, he started combined treatment with liposomal amphotericin B at a dose of 5 mg/kg/day, fluconazole at a dose of 800 mg/day, both intravenously, and daily lumbar puncture evacuations as treatment for endocranial hypertension.
A CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed segmental opacity in the apex of the right lung, solid in appearance, with areas of cavitation, homogeneous splenomegaly and retroperitoneal intercavoaortic and lateroaortic adenomegaly.
Fibrobronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage was performed; culture of the material obtained showed the development of Cryptococcus neoformans.
Isolation of Cryptococcus neoformans was also obtained in blood cultures by centrifugation lysis technique and in the scarification examination of the skin lesions. Biopsy of the skin lesions with PAS and Grocott stains showed no yeasts compatible with histoplasma.
Due to worsening haemocytometric values, with severe pancytopenia, a bone marrow biopsy was performed and showed yeast infiltration compatible with Cryptococcus. Given the suspicion of other comorbidities such as lymphomas or other opportunistic infections, cervical adenomegaly was excised, and microscopic examination showed replacement of the lymph node histoarchitecture by yeasts. Culture of the biopsy material allowed isolation and identification of Cryptococcus neoformans and Histoplasma capsulatum.
The patient evolved favourably from the microbiological point of view with a decrease in antigenemia and antigenorrhoeaemia values and negative CSF culture at one month of treatment. However, he persisted with signs of endocranial hypertension, refractory to treatment with frequent lumbar puncture evacuations, which led to the placement of a ventriculo-peritoneal shunt valve, which resulted in normalisation of CSF opening pressure values and the disappearance of signs and symptoms in the central nervous system. He started HAART at the sixth week of treatment with good adherence and tolerability. Currently the patient is in good clinical condition, receives antiretroviral treatment, secondary prophylaxis with fluconazole at a dose of 400 mg daily and primary prophylaxis with cotrimoxazole, a double dose tablet three times a week.
