A 9-year-old female schoolchild was admitted to the Paediatric Medical Infectious Diseases Department of the University Hospital of Caracas (PMI-HUC) with fever 39-40o C of 3 weeks' evolution, presenting 4-6 febrile clusters daily, predominantly at night, preceded by chills and accompanied by cutaneous vasomotor changes, vomiting, mild facial oedema, dizziness, myalgia, malaise and hyporexia. Physical examination revealed cervical adenomegaly and hepatomegaly 4.5 cm below the right costal ridge. Routine laboratory tests showed moderate leukocytosis with lymphomonocytosis, slightly elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein, muscle enzymes, creatinine kinase (CK) and myocardium-specific creatinine kinase-isoenzyme (CKMB) were normal. Serology for Epstein-Barr virus disease (EVB), cytomegalovirus (CMV), toxoplasmosis and histoplasmosis were negative as well as Mantoux test, bacteriological and mycological cultures. The sputum study was negative for acid fast bacilli (AAR). Chest and abdominal X-ray and CT scan were within normal limits. A private laboratory reported Plasmodium spp, (data not subsequently corroborated) and based on the high fever preceded by chills, a thick blood drop and blood smear were requested to verify the presence of malarial parasites. In the first few days several thick blood smears were performed, without confirming the diagnosis. On 04/12/2007 a peripheral blood smear showed an extracellular parasitic form compatible with Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigote. The Institute of Tropical Medicine was consulted and confirmed the finding of few T. cruzi trypomastigotes in the fresh and thick blood smear. The presence of specific anti-T. cruzi IgM and IgG antibodies was demonstrated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and indirect haemagglutination. Molecular diagnosis was processed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A small portion of the sample was cultured in biphasic medium and inoculated intraperitoneally into two mice to ensure growth of the parasite strain. Without waiting for the results of molecular and other indirect parasite tests, treatment with nifurtimox (6 mg/kg/day) was started immediately. No clinical, electrocardiographic or echocardiographic evidence suggestive of acute myocarditis or pericardial effusion was found. After treatment, the patient presented on the eighth day with visual hallucinations that disappeared after 24 hours. On the ninth day, palpitations were present and the Holter (cardiac rhythm recording monitor) showed supraventricular arrhythmia with Supra Ventricular CsPs without evidence of injury. Troponin I values were normal. On the 11th day, mild bipalpebral oedema was observed, which disappeared in 36 hours (parasitaemia/treatment ratio: unknown). On 19 December 2007 she was discharged with a diagnosis of acute Chagas disease, prolonged febrile syndrome resolved, precocious puberty under study and tall stature under study. His general condition was good and he was kept on anti-parasitic medication for 3 months. Serological tests showed a decrease in IgM optical densities but maintenance of IgG values. The parasite was isolated from the culture and inoculated into animals and the isolate was identified as Trypanosoma cruzi of molecular lineage. During the follow-up, cardiological controls (ECG, Holter and echocardiogram) in January and June 2008 were within normal limits.
