A 41-year-old man with fever peaking up to 40°C with shivering for the last 5 days, which subsided with antipyretics. For the last two weeks, he reported testicular pain, micturition syndrome and rectal pain unrelated to bowel movements. Physical examination revealed a fever of 39°C, with a large and painful prostate on rectal palpation. There was tachycardia, hypotension and oliguria. Laboratory tests showed leukopenia, thrombopenia and mild coagulopathy. The Sepsis Code protocol was activated and a portable abdominal ultrasound was requested, with normal kidneys. The seminal vesicles were enlarged with decreased echogenicity. The prostate was enlarged (48 mm longitudinal axis), with hypoechoic areas in the anterior lobes, which could be related to acute prostatitis. Testicular ultrasound was performed, with a small right hydrocele. He was admitted to the ICU in septic shock with renal and haemodynamic failure, thrombopenia and coagulopathy. Blood and urine cultures were taken and empirical treatment was started with ceftriaxone and ciprofloxacin. In view of the patient's poor evolution, an abdominal CT scan with intravenous contrast was performed. In the prostatic cell, a polylobulated collection measuring 5x4x3.2 cm was identified, open to the left ischiorectal musculature, where another collection measuring 3x1 cm was identified in relation to abscesses. Urology decided to perform surgery. In the previous transrectal ultrasound, multiple abscesses were identified and percutaneous transperineal ultrasound-guided needle drainage was performed, with extraction of 50-70 cc of purulent content. The most superficial abscess was incised, accessing the cavity that communicates with all the abscesses. The urethra was debrided, palpating the urethra, which appeared to be undamaged with a bladder catheter. All initial blood and urine cultures were sterile. In the purulent samples from the operating room, Staphylococcus capitis grew. The patient's improvement was progressive in the days following the operation, with good spontaneous diuretic rhythm with normal renal function, fully recovered platelets, normal coagulation and disappearance of the ischaemic lesions of the toes.
