Reason for consultation
The patient's mother came to the health centre with a closed container containing remains of faeces, among which there was an elongated foreign body of about 21 cm, whitish, unsegmented, with a flat, slippery surface, which looked like a worm. The foreign body has been expelled by the patient during defecation, following an enema, and a sphere composed of smaller, whitish, elongated bodies, which his mother calls a "snake's nest" *sic.+, has been expelled beforehand.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests)
Personal history: cerebral palsy since childhood. Living in a bed-chair, totally dependent, cared for by his 88-year-old mother. Approval of the Dependency Law.

Usual treatment: clorazepate 5mg/12h, clonazepam 2mg/12h, mirtazapine 15mg/24h, levodopa/carbidopa 25mg/8h.
Present illness: 59-year-old male, who consulted his MAP for pathological products in his stools. He is constipated and requires regular cleansing enemas.

Physical examination: afebrile. Clinically and haemodynamically stable. Good hydration and perfusion of skin and mucous membranes. Eupneic at rest. No jugular ingurgitation. Symmetrical pulses. No oedema in lower limbs. Abdomen soft, depressible, no masses or palpable megaliths. No pain on palpation. No signs of peritoneal irritation. Negative bilateral fist percussion.
CBC: haemoglobin 12.1 g/dL, haematocrit 37.6%, mean corpuscular volume 97.7 fL, leucocytes 3960/mm3 (PMN 2360/mm, lymphocytes 970/mm3), platelets 153000/mm3; biochemistry with glycaemia 82 mg/dL, normal renal function with creatinine 0.6 mg/dL, uric acid 4. 9 mg/dL, albumin 3.1 g/dL, total protein 5.5 g/dL, cholesterol in normal range, triglycerides in normal range, abdominal profile without findings of interest, including liver enzymes, bilirubin and pancreatic enzymes; proteinogram without data of interest; thyroid function normal.

Stool culture: the suspected parasite was sent to Microbiology, and finally filtered as "intestinal mucosal debris associated with plant debris".

Family and community approach
Mebendazole is administered to the patient and family members at 100 mg, single dose, to be repeated in 2 weeks, on a provisional basis and pending definitive diagnosis by Microbiology. Measures are taken to clean the environment and the home.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Parasitosis (trichuriasis, tapeworm) vs. mucosal and vegetable debris (false tapeworm).
Pancreatic or hepatic insufficiency: steatorrheic faeces with intact muscle fibres. Food intolerances: gluten, coeliac disease.
Non-parasitic digestive infections.

Action plan and evolution
He was given mebendazole 100 mg, single dose, as empirical treatment, thinking of trichuriasis, although morphologically it could be more similar to tapeworm. We waited for a microbiological diagnosis to add or not eradicatory treatment against the nematode vs. flatworm, and finally ruling out parasitosis, as we were dealing with a patient with reduced intestinal transit due to an underlying neurological disease, it was not necessary to administer it.

Evolution: the patient evolved without incident, with no abdominal pain or new stools reported.
