This is a 62-year-old man with a history of smoking (20 cigarettes/day) with criteria of chronic bronchitis, ethylism that had required treatment for addiction, hypertension and anxious-depressive syndrome. In 1979 he suffered brucellar endocarditis associated with mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis, which required placement of a mechanical aortic prosthesis, with secondary chronic kidney disease (stage 3B at present). He was being treated with flurazepam, alprazolam, trazodone, warfarin, enalapril (5mg every 24 hours) and atenolol (50mg every 24 hours).
Consultation in January 2017 due to an episode of loss of consciousness without prodrome, while seated, and fall to the floor, with rapid recovery ad integrum in a few minutes. He had been treated with amoxicillin for the last 5 days for febrile symptoms, with polyarthralgias and a poorly productive cough. The patient was afebrile and in good general condition. BP 112/60 mm Hg, heart rhythmic at 70 bpm, with metallic click and aortic systolic murmur III/VI respecting the second sound. Normal respiratory auscultation. No peripheral oedema or signs of venous thrombosis. Abdomen without findings. No skin lesions. Initial complementary tests showed ECG in sinus rhythm at 75 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS, without repolarisation alterations. Chest X-ray with cardiac silhouette in the upper limits of normality and lung parenchyma with no significant findings. Cranial CT scan showing the existence of a small focus of left parietal subarachnoid haemorrhage, chronic ischaemic lacunar lesion in the right caudate head and probable right parietal subcortical cortico-subcortical subacute ischaemic lesion. Initial laboratory tests showed: normal Hb, leukocytes and platelets, with elevated MCV (100.4 fL) and slight neutrophilia (78%); INR 4.10. Urea 78 mg/dL, and creatinine 2 mg/dL. During his stay in the ED, the syncopal symptoms recurred, with ECG findings of 1st degree AVB (PR 360 ms) and intermittent paroxysmal paroxysmal LBBB. Subsequently, serial ECGs showed progression to complete AVB with ventricular escape at 20 bpm. The patient developed clinical symptoms of left ventricular failure (LVF) and was admitted to the ICU where a transient and later permanent pacemaker was placed.

The transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed: a left ventricle of normal dimensions with mild LVH and good global systolic function, without evidence of significant regional alterations in contractility; slightly dilated left atrium; mitral valve with signs of degeneration with normal leaflets and opening and mild paraseptal mitral regurgitation; stable monodisc metallic prosthesis in aortic position with normal disc opening movements and washout jets. After clinical stabilisation, after 48 hours he was admitted to the cardiology ward, where fever (37.5-38°C), polyarthralgia and marked weakness persisted after three days of empirical treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid. The white blood cell count rose to 17,000/mm3 with 81% PMN. Other laboratory findings were: GOT 82 U/L, GPT 64 U/L, GGT 696 U/L, alkaline phosphatase 262 U/L, bilirubin 1.3 mg/dL, LDH 575 U/L, CRP 229 mg/L, ferritin 1378 ng/mL, ESR 140 mm/h and urine with positive haematuria and proteinuria. Antibiotic therapy was suspended, the dose of sedative drugs was reduced and prednisone 30 mg per day was prescribed, due to the suspicion of autoimmune symptoms. That same day Microbiology reported that staphylococci were growing in a batch of two blood cultures. In view of this finding, prednisone was maintained, a new batch of two blood cultures was obtained and treatment was started with daptomycin 850 mg every 24 hours, and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was requested. Coinciding with the first dose of prednisone, the patient became afebrile, with improvement in arthralgias and general condition. On subsequent days, and occasionally, he began to present episodes of intermittent chest discomfort of short duration with normal ECG. After two days of treatment with daptomycin, this was discontinued as the second round of blood cultures was negative, and the first round of blood cultures had grown methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus epidermidis (MIC to vancomycin <1mg/L), which was interpreted as contamination. The planned TEE was suspended and treatment with prednisone was maintained without recurrence of fever. Given the improvement in the febrile curve, polyarthralgias, general condition and laboratory tests (decrease in CRP to 94 mg/L, decrease in leukocytes to 12,000/mm3), the patient was discharged 4 days after the disappearance of fever, with prednisone 30 mg every 24 hours, with an appointment at the outpatient Infectious Diseases department for repeat blood cultures 10 days after discontinuation of antibiotherapy.
Eight days after discharge, the patient was admitted again for chest pain and was diagnosed with high-risk non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS) associated with LVEF and hypotension, and was admitted to the ICU. Coronary angiography was performed in the first 24 hours, revealing severe stenosis of the left ostial coronary artery (LMCA), which was revascularised with direct drug-eluting stent implantation, finding no other lesions at other coronary levels, with clinical improvement of the patient. 
Catheterisation: Sharpening of the ostium of the left coronary trunk was observed, with severe lesions at this level. The rest of the coronary arteries were healthy, with smooth walls and no lesions.
During this admission the febrile peaks recurred, and S. epidermidis was again isolated in blood with the same antibiogram as in the previous admission.

Differential diagnosis
AV conduction block is a disorder in which atrial impulses are conducted with delay or are not conducted to the ventricles at a time when the AV conduction pathway is not in a physiological refractory period. It may be congenital or acquired, and in the latter case there may be intrinsic or extrinsic causes for its development. Intrinsic factors include the use of negative chronotropic drugs, hydroelectrolyte disturbances, hypothyroidism, sleep apnoea (hypoxaemia) and increased vagal tone. Intrinsic causes include idiopathic degenerative fibrosis, followed by myocardial ischaemia, inflammatory-infectious or infiltrative diseases affecting conduction tissue, as well as some neuromuscular diseases (muscular dystrophy, Kearns-Sayre syndrome), systemic diseases (e.g, cardiac sarcoidosis, amyloidosis), neoplastic disorders (primary cardiac lymphoma or after radiotherapy) or after surgery or percutaneous ablation of accessory septal pathways or an AV pathway for AV nodal reentrant tachycardia.

In our case we could consider the following as the most plausible diagnostic options, in the light of the test results:
1. primary (degenerative) conduction disorders complicated with late prosthetic endocarditis secondary to S. epidermidis bacteraemia during pacemaker implantation.
Secondary conduction disorder: possible initial occult prosthetic endocarditis with involvement of conduction tissue at the level of the interaortic fibrous trigone-AV valves and further progression.
Much less likely would be high-grade block secondary to the beta-blocker the patient was taking, given that the doses were low and the block occurred progressively, with no symptoms prior to the first admission to suggest conduction disturbances.

With regard to the aetiology of NSTEACS, we would consider:
1-Atherosclerotic ACS (less likely, given the characteristics of the rest of the coronary arteries, being completely healthy and without angiographic lesions).
2-AACS due to extrinsic compression.
3-AACS secondary to inflammation of the coronary wall.

Evolution
TTE and TEE were performed, which revealed aortic periprosthetic abscess at the level of the sinuses of Valsalva (non-coronary sinus and right sinus) partially occupied by mobile echogenic material, with partial dehiscence of the prosthetic ring, generating eccentric aortic perivalvular insufficiency difficult to quantify but which appears moderate-high (III/IV). 
Transthoracic echocardiography, apical 5-chamber view. Pseudoaneurysm at the level of the membranous septum showing acquired Gerbode-type defect with fistula from the left ventricle (LV) to the right atrium (RA).
Transesophageal echocardiogram at 140o (images on the left) and over the aortic annulus plane. In the short axis of the aortic root, an aortic prosthesis with abscess is seen at the level of the posterior hemicircumference, dilatation of the posterior sinus of Valsalva that fistulises on the right side to the right atrium and dehiscence of the prosthesis at the level of the posterior annulus. The left coronary trunk is seen in continuity with the periprosthetic abscess.

There was also fistulisation from the abscess to both right chambers, as well as a hypermobile image adhering to the prosthesis disc of 2 mm compatible with vegetation. No vegetations were observed on the remaining heart valves or pacemaker leads. The function of both ventricles was preserved.

Combined treatment with cloxacillin 2 g/4h and daptomycin 650 mg/24h iv was started, leaving afebrile and negative blood cultures on the third day of treatment. Transfer to the reference hospital was requested for surgery, but the patient was refused, so transfer to another centre was requested, which took place 9 days after diagnosis of TEE endocarditis. At the time of transfer, valve insufficiency had worsened due to TTE and dehiscence of 50% of the prosthesis circumference was observed. The patient was in NYHA grade III heart failure, requiring 120 mg of furosemide per day. At the hospital, antibiotic therapy was replaced by cefazolin and surgery was performed 23 days after diagnosis, with aortic valve replacement with a new mechanical valve and placement of a pericardial patch to close the area of abscess fistulised in the right atrium.

The postoperative period was complicated by renal failure requiring haemodialysis, left ventricular failure and septic symptoms of unclear origin (with no response to a change in antibiotic therapy to piperacillin-tazobactam plus daptomycin), and the patient died of multi-organ failure 12 days after surgery.

Final diagnosis
Late prosthetic infective endocarditis on mechanical aortic prosthesis due to methicillin-sensitive S. epidermidis, complicated with periannular abscess at aortic root level and aortoatrial fistula, severe perivalvular aortic insufficiency and secondary heart failure.

 High degree AV block and NSTEACS in probable relation to extrinsic compression by periprosthetic abscess.

