Reason for consultation
Pain and swelling in the left abdomen.

Anamnesis and physical examination
Male, 40 years old, with no personal history of interest, drinker of about three beers a day, without regular treatment at home. He consulted the Emergency Department for presenting fever of up to 38oC and pain with a sensation of inflammation in the left hemiabdomen of about 20 days' evolution. Dyspnoea on moderate exertion for the last ten days, with no accompanying cough or expectoration. She had no weight loss or night sweats, nor did she report any other symptoms in the anamnesis by apparatus. At the onset of the symptoms he had visited his regional referral hospital on two occasions, where he had undergone a blood test showing mild leukocytes and elevated CRP, as well as a CT scan of the abdomen showing thickening of the muscle bellies and subcutaneous cellular tissue, with no other findings, for which antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid was prescribed, without the patient noticing any improvement in his symptoms. Physical examination showed blood pressure 140/100 mmHg, heart rate 100 bpm, baseline oxygen saturation 93%, temperature 37.5oC. General condition is good, with good level of consciousness and orientation in the three spheres. No cervical or axillary lymphadenopathy. Cardiac auscultation was rhythmic, with no murmurs, and respiratory auscultation showed hyperventilation in the left base. The abdomen was soft, not painful on palpation, with no palpable masses or megaliths. The lateral and posterior area of the left abdomen was oedematous, slightly erythematous and warmer than the rest of the abdomen. Extremities without oedema, with palpable distal pulses and no other alterations. No cervical, axillary or inguinal lymph nodes were palpable. Examination of the cranial nerves was normal, with intact strength, muscle tone and sensation.

Complementary tests
Laboratory tests performed in the ED showed a haemocyte count of 106,000 leukocytes/μL, with a normal leukocyte formula, haemoglobin 13.8 g/dL, platelets 183,000/μL. Coagulation with 75% prothrombin activity. Biochemistry with normal glucose, renal function and ions, CRP 47. Chest X-ray shows a left pleural effusion. The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at 85 bpm, with normal QRS complex axis and no repolarisation abnormalities. An ultrasound scan of the abdomen showed thickening of the abdominal oblique, latissimus dorsi and left serratus muscle bellies, as well as inflammatory changes in the subcutaneous cellular tissue and slight attenuation changes in the fat of the posas and left iliac region. With these data, the patient was admitted to the Internal Medicine hospital ward for investigation of localised or focal myositis.

Differential diagnosis
Myositis is an inflammation of the musculoskeletal tissue that can be caused by different pathologies. Infection is a rare cause of soft tissue infections. It can be caused by multiple pathogens, including viruses (Coxsackie group B or HIV), trichinosis and bacterial infections. In addition, in the case of penetrating wounds contaminated by spores of Clostridium perfringens, which causes gas gangrene, the following can occur
1. Inflammatory myopathies include a heterogeneous group of muscle diseases that have in common subacute or chronic muscle weakness and the presence of inflammatory infiltrates in the muscle biopsy. Included in this group is polymyositis characterised by proximal predominantly symmetrical weakness of chronic course, in addition to systemic manifestations. It also includes dermatomyositis, characterised by asthenia and fever, followed by muscle involvement and the appearance of skin lesions. Finally, inclusion body myositis is the only one most prevalent in males, characterised by slow, symmetrical weakness, initially in the lower limbs, and atrophy of the affected musculature.
2 Metabolic myopathies have in common abnormalities in muscle energy metabolism, muscle biopsy reveals fibre necrosis and phagocytosis, as well as esonophilic myositis as part of an eosinophilic syndrome, granulomatous myositis (isolated or associated with granulomatous syndromes). Other diseases to consider in the diagnosis especially when the form is localised are muscle cancer and/or thrombophlebitis.
3 The diagnosis of inflammatory myopathies is suspected on the basis of clinical features and confirmed by laboratory tests, serum muscle enzyme concentration, presence of autoantibodies, electromyography and muscle biopsy. Recently, muscle MRI and ultrasound studies have been introduced as auxiliary tools in the process of differential diagnosis of myopathies. The definitive diagnostic procedure is muscle biopsy, which ideally should be performed prior to the start of treatment and is usually taken from the vastolateral, deltoid or biceps brachii muscles, verifying that the muscle does not show severe atrophy.3

Final result
In our case, the patient presented with a very localised myositis, with exclusive involvement of the muscle bellies of the chest and abdominal wall, as well as involvement of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Given the patient's epidemiological history, a diagnosis of trichinosis was made and treatment was started with albendazole and antibiotic therapy aimed at the cellulitis secondary to the process. Blood cultures, stool cultures and serology (including trichina spiralis) were also taken, with negative results. The patient's muscular lesion did not improve despite the start of treatment, and even progressed to other muscle bellies, and the pleural effusion got progressively worse. Diagnostic thoracentesis was performed, compatible with exudate, which was sent to microbiology and pathological anatomy, with negative results for malignant cells, although suggestive of an inflammatory process with abundant eosinophilia. Finally, it was necessary to perform a pleural drainage due to respiratory failure with massive pleural effusion. In view of the persistence of the symptoms, muscular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was requested, which showed a destructuring of the muscular wall, with inflammatory changes, fundamental involvement of the muscles of the lateral abdominal wall and left flank, which showed irregular enhancement with contrast, without appreciable drainable organised collections, as well as oedema in the fat of the abdominal wall and in the interior of the abdominal cavity. Finally, it was decided to perform a muscle biopsy by surgery, sending the sample to the microbiology and pathological anatomy laboratories at our centre. The microbiological study was negative. The anatomopathological study was of fibroadipose tissue and striated muscle bundles showing infiltration by a proliferation of large cells with an oval nucleus accompanied by numerous eosinophils, after the immunohistochemical study a diagnosis of a peripheral T lymphoproliferative process of the peripheral T lymphoma type with an aberrant T immunophenotype was made. The patient was assessed by the Oncology Department, which started chemotherapy treatment with the CHOP scheme with the patient hospitalised, with good tolerance by the patient, so it was decided to discharge him home to continue treatment and follow-up on an outpatient basis. The chemotherapy treatment has now been completed and in the latest check-ups the patient is in complete remission.
