Anamnesis
Male, 29 years old, born in Senegal and resident in Almería for 7 years, without subsequent trips back to his country of origin. Agricultural labourer. He denied any personal history of interest, toxic habits and regular treatment.

He was referred to the Internal Medicine Department for the onset, 2 months ago, of respiratory difficulty and retrosternal oppression on deep inspiration. He also reported a scarcely productive cough, wheezing and, on occasions, a non-thermometric feeling of dystrophy. During this time, he was prescribed several outpatient drugs for symptomatic relief (analgesics, mucolytics, antitussives and inhalers) and received treatment with oral levofloxacin for 1 week, but none of these measures showed any clinical improvement. In fact, he complained of increased wheezing after fluticasone/salmeterol inhalation. He had no associated symptoms at other levels, except for flatulence and constipation intermittently.

Physical examination
General condition preserved, remaining normotensive and afebrile at all times. Adequate colouring, hydration and perfusion. No adenopathy in accessible areas or evidence of muco-cutaneous lesions. Eupneic at rest, with good tolerance to decubitus and basal oxygen saturation of 97%. No jugular ingurgitation. Rhythmic heart tones at 80 bpm with no murmurs or audible friction rubs. Pulmonary hypoventilation with some isolated wheezing. Abdomen soft and depressible with slight discomfort on deep palpation in the epigastrium, with no palpable masses or visceromegaly. No oedema or signs of vascular pathology in the lower limbs. The rest of the physical examination showed no relevant findings.

Complementary tests
Biochemistry: glucose 83 mg/dl, urea 26 mg/dl, creatinine 0.83 mg/dl, uric acid 5.3 mg/dl, cholesterol 166 mg/dl, triglycerides 51 mg/dl, GOT 34 IU/L, GPT 32 IU/L, alkaline phosphatase 80 IU/L, sodium 137 mEq/L, potassium 4.2 mEq/L, CRP 0.10 mg/dl, CPK 389 IU/L. Negative cardiac markers. Iron 120 ug/dl, ferritin 138 ng/ml, Immunoglobulin E 1523 IU/ml, ESR 22 mm. CBC: haemoglobin 16.6 g/dl, leucocytes 7490 mm3 (37% neutrophils, 21.90% eosinophils), total eosinophils 1640/ mm3 (this value was confirmed by a second analytical determination). Basic coagulation with normal parameters. Urine system without pathological findings. Serology: HIV negative, Hepatitis C: anti-HCV negative, Hepatitis B: HBsAg, HBcAc and HBeAc positive. Mantoux negative. Baseline arterial blood gases: pH 7.40, pO2 75 mmHg, pCO2 38 mmHg, satO2 96%, HCO3 25 mEq/l. Spirometry showed mild lower airway obstruction (FEV1: 70%, FEV1/FVC: 65%, FEF 25-75: 75% of the theoretical value) with a sharp fall in the flow-volume curve with an upward concavity after the appearance of peak expiratory flow. Chest X-ray showed small focal and variegated infiltrates in both lung bases, with a more peripheral location in the left hemithorax.

Differential diagnosis
We present the clinical case of a male patient with no previous history of bronchial hyperresponsiveness who, at the age of 29 years, presented with respiratory distress, wheezing and eosinophilia. Pathologies with eosinophilia and pulmonary infiltrates are grouped into the so-called "pulmonary eosinophilias". The entities that make up this group allowed the correct differential diagnosis to be made. The patient's symptoms had started 2 months earlier and there was no previous history of allergy or intake of drugs, so it was initially ruled out that it could be secondary to a hypersensitivity reaction (the leading cause of eosinophilia in the general population). As he came from a tropical region, the possibility of helminthiasis seemed more reasonable and was consolidated as our first option. Moreover, causes of idiopathic origin usually constitute a diagnosis by exclusion; and other pathologies (autoimmune diseases, neoplasms and other non-helminthic infections) were unlikely in the epidemiological and, above all, clinical context of the patient.

Final diagnosis
Given our initial clinical suspicion, 3 samples were requested for stool parasite examination, and Strongyloides stercolaris larvae were visualised microscopically in the third sample submitted. Strongyloides Ac. Strongyloides IgG ELISA was also confirmed with a very positive result (index: 10, positive>1.1). The final diagnosis was Löffler's syndrome secondary to Strongyloides stercolaris parasitism.

Evolution
The patient was treated with Ivermectin 200 mcg/kg for 2 days, with clinical improvement and subsequent disappearance of eosinophilia. He has not presented respiratory symptoms again.
