We present the case of a 36-year-old male from Morocco who has been living in Spain for 6 months, with no known drug allergies or toxic habits. His only history was that he had worked for a month in a slaughterhouse, although he had not worked there for 5 months. She consulted the emergency department for bilateral low back pain radiating to the abdomen for two months, which was difficult to control despite second stage analgesia. He also reported sporadic febrile peaks, profuse sweating and dysuria, which he did not present at the time of consultation. On examination, the patient was in good general condition, although affected by pain, conscious and oriented in the three spheres, well hydrated and perfused, normal colour and eupneic at rest without requiring supplementary oxygen. The patient is haemodynamically stable, with blood pressure (BP) of 118/80 mmHg, heart rate (HR) of 80 beats per minute, oxygen saturation of 98% without supplemental oxygen and temperature of 35.6o.
On cardiopulmonary auscultation the patient showed rhythmic tones without audible murmurs or extratonos, as well as a preserved vesicular murmur with no added pathological sounds. The abdomen was soft and depressible, slightly painful on palpation in general, especially in the left flank, with no signs of peritoneal irritation and with hydro-aerial sounds present. The extremities showed no signs of deep vein thrombosis, no oedema or signs of chronic venous insufficiency, with bilaterally symmetrical pulses. As for the musculoskeletal examination, the patient presented pain on palpation of the bilateral lumbosacral paravertebral muscles and lumbar spinous processes, without crepitus or other alterations. The Lassegué and Bragard manoeuvres were positive at 20o bilaterally, as were the pain reproduction manoeuvres at the sacroiliac level. No other alterations were identified in the rest of the examination by apparatus.

On admission, a lumbar spine X-ray showed a physiological lordosis rectification, with no other notable alterations, as well as a chest X-ray with a cardiomediastinal silhouette of normal size and morphology and no other notable findings. The admission haemogram showed normality in all three series, as well as an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 20 mm/h. Biochemistry showed a slight elevation of transaminases (AST 57 mg/dl and ALT 71 mg/dl), as well as a C-reactive protein (CRP) of 37.76 mg/l. Creatinine was within normal values, and there were no abnormalities in the systematic urine analysis. A urine culture was performed prior to admission with negative results.

Given the clinical manifestations of abdominal pain, an abdominal ultrasound was requested, the only notable finding being splenomegaly with a spleen 162 mm in longitudinal axis and homogeneous echogenicity. The association of dysuria led to contacting the Urology Department, which after assessing the patient identified a solid thickening of the head of the left epididymis compatible with epididymitis. Given the clinical manifestations of lumbosacral pain and the exploratory findings, a lumbosacral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan was requested, which showed a pinched L5-S1 intervertebral space with hyperintensity in T2 and STIR sequences, signs suggestive of spondylodiscitis, also showing in contiguity with the disc and extending towards the posterior epidural space and first right sacral foramen, a collection of multiloculated appearance with peripheral enhancement, suggestive of abscess. The approximate size of the abscess was 39 mm x 12.5 mm x 21.5 mm.

Differential diagnosis
For the differential diagnosis, given the findings obtained in the lumbosacral MRI, with the presence of abscessation and local inflammatory signs, we can focus our attention on pathologies of infectious origin.
- Infection of pyogenic origin: S. aureus is the most frequent microorganism related to pyogenic vertebral osteomyelitis, followed by E. coli1 , with the primary focus of infection in 50% of patients being the urinary tract, skin or soft tissues. Virulent microorganisms such as Pseudomonas spp, Salmonella spp or S. aureus itself generate paravertebral abscesses that can evolve and invade adjacent viscera, while more indolent microorganisms generate abscesses that evolve parallel to the tissues, usually ending at the inguinal or gluteal level. Fever, leukocytosis and sweating are symptoms that usually appear in pyogenic osteomyelitis, with a rapid and aggressive clinical course. In the case of our patient, the association of dysuria and the symptoms of fever and sweating could point to this pathology, but the absence of leukocytosis and the insidious course over more than two months suggest alternative diagnoses.
- Vertebral tuberculosis: also called Pott's disease or tuberculous spondylitis, this is a diagnosis to be considered in cases of persistent and insidious low back pain, especially if accompanied by constitutional symptoms or fever. Tuberculous spondylitis is usually preceded by a previous primoinfection, which may be asymptomatic, so the patient's lack of knowledge of exposure to tuberculosis does not rule out this pathology. Our patient comes from Morocco, considered a tuberculosis endemic area, with an estimated incidence rate of 50-99 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Furthermore, the patient's dysuria may be related to possible renal or genital tuberculosis. The presence in our patient of profuse sweating, loss of appetite and fever could favour vertebral tuberculosis as a possible diagnosis.
- Brucellosis: this pathology, typically associated with the consumption of unpasteurised dairy products and contact with animal tissues contaminated by Brucella spp from cattle, pigs or goats and being endemic especially in North Africa, usually starts with non-specific symptoms such as fever (which may alternate febrile peaks with afebrile periods), headache, anaemia and profuse sweating, as well as splenomegaly in 1/3 of all patients. These symptoms may persist for two to eight weeks and musculoskeletal involvement (the most common complication of brucellar disease) usually does not appear until the previous symptoms disappear. The occurrence of paravertebral abscesses is less frequent than in tuberculosis, although their presence is possible. The diagnosis of brucellosis is made by positive culture of the organism in any type of sample or by measurement of brucellar agglutinins. Leukocytosis is usually absent and elevated ESR, if present, is of little relevance. Involvement of other organs, such as the genitourinary system, although less frequent than musculoskeletal complications, is also possible.
Analysing our patient, his work history, his country of origin and the presence of a discrete elevation of ESR in the absence of leukocytosis could point to brucellosis as a possible diagnosis. In addition, the presence of isolated febrile peaks interspersed with afebrile periods, as well as the splenomegaly detected on abdominal ultrasound, also point to brucellosis.

Evolution
In view of the results obtained in the lumbosacral MRI, and the patient's work history, the possibility of an infection of zoonotic origin was raised. Urine cultures were requested, which were negative, and blood cultures, which were positive for Brucella mellitensis. The Rose Bengal test was performed and was positive, with an antibody quantification of 1/320. Once the diagnosis was known, antibiotic treatment was started with triple therapy of doxycycline 100 mg every 12 hours, rifampicin 600 mg every 24 hours and gentamicin for 7 days intravenously. Given the size of the abscess and the clinical manifestations caused by it, it was decided to contact the Neurosurgery Department for drainage of the collection, which was successfully performed, taking samples that were cultured with negative results. After starting treatment, the patient showed a slow but progressive improvement in pain, and was discharged home to continue treatment with double therapy of doxycycline and rifampicin for 12 weeks. He was assessed in the Outpatient Infectious Diseases Department 15 days after discharge, and the patient reported poor control of back pain, so it was decided to increase the daily dose of rifampicin to 900 mg every 24 hours. During the following months he required two new admissions for poor control of low back pain despite second-level analgesic treatment. In both cases, follow-up lumbosacral MRI scans were requested, with no apparent changes in the evolution of the infectious process, although no radiological worsening was identified. He was assessed by the Neurosurgery Department, which did not identify the need for drainage of the abscess at that time. In both admissions the patient evolved satisfactorily, with good pain control initially with intravenous medication and subsequently with good tolerance to the change to oral medication. The patient was assessed in the Outpatient Infectious Diseases Department three months after the last admission, with no new incidents and with adequate pain control. A new lumbosacral MRI was requested, which showed a practical resolution of the initial infectious process, with disappearance of the epidural abscess and almost complete absence of signs of spondylitis at the level of the L5 and S1 vertebral bodies.

Final diagnosis
Lumbar spondylodiscitis due to Brucella melitensis with local extension towards the posterior epidural space and first sacral foramen, abscessation at this level and bacteraemia.

