Anamnesis
A 15-year-old male patient with a personal history of Prune Belly syndrome with permeable urachus and renal transplant of 12 years of evolution, with no known drug allergies.
In the current episode, the patient came to the emergency department for recurrent pain of colic characteristics in the left hemiabdomen that had been present for years.
After birth, the patient was diagnosed with bilateral renal dysplasia, large bladder and paraurethral diverticulum. In his first week of life he developed grade IV renal insufficiency and progressively developed obstructive uropathy due to type II posterior urethral valves and urethral stricture.
At two years of age, he was put on peritoneal dialysis and six months later on haemodialysis. A year later, a right kidney was implanted from an adult cadaver donor, by means of a Woodruff type neoureterocystostomy. Since then he has been on intermittent catheterisation for the permeable urachus and immunosuppressive treatment with prednisone, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus.
At five years of age, he underwent a right nephroureterectomy of the native kidney due to several episodes of pyelonephritis and severe hydronephrosis of the ectopic ureter, which led to acute graft dysfunction on one occasion. Four years later he was diagnosed with bladder lithiasis, resolved by endoscopic lithotripsy.
Several years later, he started with repeated urinary tract infections and recurrent pain in the left iliac fossa, in addition to a slow and progressive deterioration of renal function to creatinine levels of 4.78 mg/dl and a glomerular filtration rate of 25 ml/min/1.73 m2, prior to his last admission.

Physical examination
On admission, the patient weighed 47 kg, had a height of 155 cm, blood pressure 140/90 mmHg and was afebrile. His abdomen was soft and depressible, with known hypotonia and pain on palpation in the left hemiabdomen, with no signs of peritoneal irritation.

Complementary tests
- On admission, a blood test was performed, with values such as 5.5 mg/dl creatinine, 9.88 mg/dl calcium, 49.3 CRP and 16.12 x 109/l leucocytes. A urine culture was positive for Escherichia coli (100,000 CFU/ml).
- An abdominal ultrasound was performed, in which the renal graft was observed with mild pyelic ectasia, good vascularisation and normal resistance index, as well as distal right ureter distended with three stones inside.
- Following these findings, an abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan was performed without contrast, with similar results. Finally, an opaque enema was performed, showing a stop in the proximal region of the sigma in relation to a lower intestinal obstruction.

Diagnosis
After the complementary tests carried out, the patient was diagnosed with:
- Intestinal obstruction.
- Ureteral lithiasis of the renal graft.
- Grade IV chronic renal insufficiency.

Treatment
On admission, the patient was treated with intravenous antibiotherapy (imipenem) and immunosuppressant treatment was withdrawn. On the sixth day of admission he underwent surgery. A median laparotomy was performed, observing great distension of the intestinal loops, which were decompressed until a flange was observed at the level of the descending colon, which was released. Intestinal de-rotation is also performed at this level.
After resolving the digestive problem, a large bladder is observed. After opening the anterior aspect of the bladder, the right ureteral meatus was observed, which excreted abundant urine, but on attempting to catheterise it, a proximal stop appeared that could only be overcome with a Teflon guidewire. It was decided to perform a meatotomy, after which the stenosis that produced the stop was released and the ureter catheterised. After this, the distal ureter is freed, observing the imprint of the lithiasis just before the intramural course of the ureter. The larger stone (1.5 cm) is removed by performing a ureterotomy, and other smaller, more proximal stones are removed using a 4 F Fogarty® catheter.
Finally, a double J ureteral catheter and a ureteral tutor are placed and removed by counter-incision, as well as a bladder catheter through the permeable urachus.

Evolution
The patient's postoperative evolution was good, with creatinine levels 2 days after the operation of 5.37 mg/dl.
Antibiotic therapy with imipenem was maintained for 8 days, and the subsequent urine culture was negative. The result of the examination of the extracted stone was calcium carbonate.
The ureteral tutor was removed 8 days after the operation, as was the bladder catheter. He was discharged 12 days after surgery, maintaining antibiotic prophylaxis. One week later, he came for a check-up, with creatinine levels of 4.28 mg/dl and normal bowel transit.
Currently, she continues to be reviewed by the nephrology department, having started the study for a new living donor transplant (mother), which will be performed in the pre-dialysis phase.
