Anamnesis
A 27-year-old male with a history of superficial venous thrombosis in the lower limbs in July 2011, on treatment with low molecular weight heparin for three months, suspended after completing the aetiological study with normal results. She had no other medical history of interest. She came to the emergency department for a clinical picture of headache with mild onset, periocular involvement and oppressive quality, progressing over days to a dull, continuous, deep and generalised pain, which worsened with exertion; it did not interfere with night-time rest.

Physical examination
Good general condition, 37.5 oC, normotensive, eupneic. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was normal. Abdomen and extremities without pathological findings.
Neurological examination: conscious, oriented and cooperative. Language and higher functions preserved. Symmetrical carotid arteries without murmurs. Cranial nerves normal. Strength, sensitivity, tone and myotatic reflexes without alterations, normal gait. Normal eye fundus. Negative meningeal signs.

Complementary tests
- In the Emergency Department, a blood test with haemogram, biochemistry and haemostasis and a chest X-ray were performed, which showed no pathological findings.
- The study was completed with a cranial computed tomography (CT) scan, which was reported as normal.
- Cerebrospinal fluid biochemistry showed no abnormal data, although opening pressure was not determined during lumbar puncture.

Treatment and evolution
After starting treatment with conventional analgesia, the symptoms subsided, so it was decided to discharge him, recommending relative rest and symptomatic treatment. After two weeks during which mild headache persisted with little functional repercussion, the clinical picture worsened, with progression of the headache and the appearance of vomiting and cervical pain, for which reason he returned to the Emergency Department. The patient continued to be in good general condition, the physical examination (including fundus examination) and laboratory tests were again normal, and a second cranial CT scan was performed, which was reported as normal.

In view of the clinical signs and the normality of the tests performed, an assessment was requested by the Neurology Department, which performed a new lumbar puncture and analysed the opening pressure of the cerebrospinal fluid. The biochemical analysis showed no increase in cells and proteins and glycorrhachia was normal, while the opening pressure rose to 42 cm H2O (normal values from 7 to 18 cm H2O).

The presence of intracranial hypertension made it necessary to rule out cerebral venous sinus thrombosis as the aetiological cause of the hypertension, so an urgent venous phase cranial CT angiography was performed, which confirmed the presumptive diagnosis. Angio-CT scan in venous phase. It shows a filling defect in the left internal jugular vein. A delta or empty triangle sign is seen at the confluence of the venous sinuses. It showed extensive thrombosis in the left transverse sinus with extension to the sigmoid sinus, left jugular vein up to the confluence with the left subclavian vein, right transverse and sigmoid sinuses and brachiocephalic venous trunk. With the diagnosis of massive thrombosis of the cerebral venous sinuses with secondary intracranial hypertension, anticoagulant treatment was started with sodium heparin to maintain an activated partial thromboplastin time of 1.5 to 2 times its value, followed by acenocoumarol and analgesia. During admission, an aetiological study of prothrombotic states was completed. A blood test was performed with a study of immunity (extractable nuclear antigen, ANOE, neutrophil anti-cytoplasm, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, rheumatoid factor), hypercoagulability (anticardiolipin antibodies, lupus anticoagulant, lupus anticoagulant), lupus anticoagulant, proteins C and S, antithrombin III, thrombin gene 20210A mutation and Leyden's factor V), homocysteine, serology (human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B and C virus, lupus, Borrelia) and tumour markers. To rule out a neoplastic origin, a thoraco-abdominal-pelvic CT scan and a testicular ultrasound were performed. To date, no secondary cause of thrombophilia has been demonstrated in our patient. After clinical improvement and achievement of an adequate anticoagulation range the patient left the hospital. Three weeks after discharge, a cranial MRI with angioresonance was performed, in which signal alteration persisted in the left transverse-sigmoid sinus and jugular bulb and partial visualisation of the right transverse-sigmoid sinus, with filling of the same after contrast administration, indicating partial recanalisation. No areas of established venous infarction were observed. The patient continues to lead a normal life.
