Male 71 years old with a history of gonarthrosis with knee prosthesis and ex-drinker. He lives in a rural area, livestock farmer, and reports having been trying to exterminate a plague of mice on his farm. He consulted for 4 days of fever, choluric urine and muscle pain in the posterior region of both thighs and calves associated with muscle weakness and difficulty in walking. On arrival BP: 141/78 HR: 105 T: 37.1°C Sat: 98%. On examination, jaundice, eupneic, cardiac auscultation: tachycardic, no murmurs. Abdomen hepatomegaly of 2 finger widths neurological: strength 4/5 in the lower limbs with abolished osteotendinous reflexes. In view of these clinical and epidemiological data and the high suspicion of leptospirosis, serology was requested and antibiotic treatment with doxycycline by mouth was started and the patient was admitted to hospital. During his stay, his condition deteriorated rapidly, and in less than 12 hours he began to experience oliguria, hypotension, delirium, episodes of non-sustained VT and respiratory deterioration with haemoptysis, which required OTI-VM and admission to the ICU. During these hours, treatment with iv ceftriaxone was added to haemodynamic support. After 20 days in the ICU where the microbiological diagnosis of leptospira was confirmed, good clinical evolution with transfer to the internal medicine department and discharge from the hospital 26 days after admission to the emergency department. Leptospirosis is a worldwide zoonosis transmitted to humans by direct contact with the urine of wild mammals (especially rats and mice, but also dogs, cats, sheep, pigs, cattle and all types of wild animals). Although it is more frequent in tropical and subtropical countries, there are several traditionally endemic areas in Spain, such as rice-growing areas in the Valencian Community or the Ebro Delta. In Gran Canaria it is rare, twenty-two patients were admitted to our hospital from 2000 to 2010, the average age was 61.41 years, 68.2% from rural areas, during admission 81.8% presented acute renal failure and 68.2% shock with admission to the ICU. Five patients died. The causes of death are usually renal failure, cardiopulmonary failure and haemorrhage. Recovery is usually complete, although sequelae ranging from chronic fatigue to other neuropsychiatric symptoms such as headache, paraesthesias, mood swings and depression may remain. Treatment should be initiated as soon as the diagnosis is suspected. Less severe cases can be treated with oral antibiotics, such as amoxicillin, ampicillin, doxycycline or erythromycin. In more severe cases third generation cephalosporins and quinolones are useful. As important as antibiotics are supportive measures and treatment of water-electrolyte, haemodynamic, renal and pulmonary disturbances.
