14-year-old patient with no drug allergies or personal history of interest except migraine. No regular medication, occasional intake of NSAIDs. She started on 20th December with general malaise, odynophagia and a feeling of dystrophy. Initially, symptomatic treatment was started in primary care for suspected viral pharyngotonsillary symptoms without improvement, and fever persisted. Ten days later, she was seen in the emergency department of our hospital, blood cultures were taken and oral antimicrobial treatment with Cefditoren was started, also without improvement. At 72 hours, blood cultures identified gram-positive cocci growth in chains (Streptococcus or Enterococcus spp. pending identification and antibiogram). Using the PROA programme and monitoring of bacteraemia, the patient is notified for admission, the patient's condition is identified and intravenous treatment is administered.

Complementary tests and evolution
Blood cultures: Fusobacterium necrophorum sensitive to penicillin, cefoxitin, carba, clindamycin and metronidazole.
Cervico-thoracic angio-CT scan: findings suggestive, given the clinical picture, of bilateral patchy and cavitated pneumonic condensations and partial thrombosis of the right jugular vein (fig 1).
On arrival on the ward, the patient deteriorated, with a tendency to hypotension, tachypnoea and the need for supplementary oxygen therapy, for which reason the ICU was consulted and she was admitted to the ICU with an initial diagnosis of Lemierre's syndrome: bacteraemia due to Fusobacterium necrophorum. Pulmonary septic embolism. Septic thrombosis of the jugular vein.
The evolution was torpid and slowly progressive but finally favourable, having started antimicrobial treatment with beta-lactam and metronidazole, with subsequent de-escalation to antibiogram-directed sodium penicillin. Bilateral chest drainage was required due to empyema.
After 2 weeks in ICU, she was transferred to the hospital ward with complete resolution of the alterations present on admission, remaining afebrile and asymptomatic, maintaining anticoagulation with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH).
