BACKGROUND:
74-year-old woman. Hypertension. Rheumatic heart disease with predominantly mitral insufficiency. Mitral valve replacement with mechanical prosthesis Bjork no. 31 in 1976. 31 in 1976. Pacemaker implantation due to symptomatic slow atrial fibrillation in 1996 with last generator replacement in 2015, presenting on that occasion with spontaneously draining bursa haematoma with negative blood cultures and normal TTE, which was covered empirically with ampicillin + intravenous gentamicin with good subsequent evolution. Chronic treatment: acenocoumarol according to scheme, olmesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 20/12.5 mg c/24 hours, verapamil 120 mg c/24 hours, zolpidem 10 mg c/24 hours, formoterol/budesodin 160/4.5 mcg inh c/24 hours.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
She attended the emergency department on 10/3/2016 for general malaise, headache, arthomyalgia, anorexia, fever and weight loss of 2 weeks' evolution. She presented with initial suspicion of left upper lobe pneumonia and was prescribed empirical antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin, escalating to imipenem due to persistent febrile syndrome and general deterioration, as well as blood culture growth of Streptococcus gordinii.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Temperature 36 oC. Blood pressure 126/63 mmHg, heart rate 66 bpm, oxygen saturation 97% with nasal goggles at 2 l/min, RR 16 rpm.
Conscious, oriented and cooperative. Good general condition. Eupneic at rest. Good distal perfusion, adequate hydric status. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds with prosthetic click without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: rhonchi, minimal crackles in the left base. Lower extremities: no oedema, no signs of deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: ventricular rhythm stimulated by pacemaker at 60 bpm.
THORAX X-RAY: condensation at the level of the left upper lobe.
ANALYSIS: Haemogram: Hb 10 g/dl. Leukocytes 24,300 u/l (neutrophils 85%, lymphocytes 8%), platelets 201,000 u/l. Biochemistry: glucose 135 mg/dl. Urea 54 mg/dl. Creatinine 1.28 mg/dl. GFR 41 ml/min. Sodium 132 mmol/l. Potassium 4.4 mmol/l. C-reactive protein 211 mg/l. CPK 119 U/l. Troponin T 19 ng/l (normal). Coagulation: PT 16 s. INR 4.2. Fibrinogen 905 mg/dl. Blood gases: pH 7.47, pO2 68 mmHg, pCO2 29 mmHg, SatO2 97%.
Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE): endocarditis on mitral prosthetic valve. Bjork mechanical prosthesis in mitral position with no signs of dysfunction. In the posterior portion of the annulus (close to the atrial appendage) there is an anechoic cavity of pulsatile appearance of approximately 2.6 cm x 1.6 cm with images of greater density in its interior, suggesting an abscess in the clinical context of the patient. Left ventricle (LV) neither dilated nor hypertrophic LVEF 58%. Right ventricle (RV) not dilated, normal global contractility. Both atria moderately dilated. Normofunctioning aortic valve. Tricuspid normal, mild insufficiency. Pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (PSAP) 50 mmHg + 15-20 mmHg (severe pulmonary hypertension). Pericardium without effusion. Right pleural effusion. Inferior vena cava slightly dilated with respiratory variation present. Pacemaker electrode in right ventricle without apparent alterations.
Chest PET-CT scan: hypermetabolism in the mitral region suggesting an infectious process, with no evidence of hypermetabolic foci in the path of the pacemaker lead. Uptake at the generator site (residual of recent replacement versus very low activity infection). Post-surgical changes in mitral valve with replacement by mechanical prosthesis. Collection with contrast in its interior of 28 x 17 x 15 mm depending on the anterior portion of the mitral annulus, suggestive of pseudoaneurysm. 

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Due to persistent febrile syndrome and positive cultures for multisensitive Streptococcus gordinii, it was decided to perform the aforementioned studies. TTE showed an image on the atrial side in the lateral region of the mitral annulus suggestive of an abscess compatible with the diagnosis of endocarditis on the prosthetic valve. This finding was corroborated by PET/CT, which showed a collection in the anterior portion of the mitral annulus suggestive of pseudoaneurysm with hypercaptation at this level. Urgent surgical intervention was decided in June 2016 and an open abscess was found towards the left atrium at the level of leaflets A1-P1. In addition, on examining the mechanical prosthesis, there was evidence of restriction of the movement of the disc due to pannus with calcified mitral annulus, as well as part of the atrial wall. The abscess was closed with two stitches and a Perimount Edwards No 27 biological mitral prosthesis was implanted, as well as a generator replacement due to minimal hypercaptation, as seen on PET-CT. During her stay in hospital she evolved favourably, de-escalating antibiotic treatment and prescribing benzylpenicillin, with negative blood cultures for control and prosthetic material. She was asymptomatic and progressed well in hospital, so it was decided to discharge her and continue outpatient follow-up, completing antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin for two months. 

DIAGNOSIS
Infectious endocarditis due to multisensitive Streptococcus gordinii on mechanical mitral prosthesis complicated by mitral periannular abscess. Replacement of mechanical mitral prosthesis with Perimount Edwards No 27 mitral biological prosthesis. Replacement of pacemaker generator due to suspected pacemaker pocket infection.
