Anamnesis
A girl aged three years and eight months, with a history of atopic dermatitis, correctly vaccinated according to the vaccination schedule, except for Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV), who consulted for the appearance of a very pruritic, non-painful lesion on the left cheek five days later, together with an ipsilateral preauricular tumour. He started treatment with topical mupirocin and topical prednicarbate prescribed by the paediatrician in the area without improvement. She reported no accompanying systemic symptoms. She had presented two similar episodes in the last two years, both in December, with partial response to previous treatments.

Physical examination
On inspection there was an erythematous plaque 5 cm in diameter, with papules and nodules centred on follicles, overlying crusts and facial asymmetry with increased contour of the left hemiface at the expense of the preauricular region. He also had mobile and non-painful lymphadenopathies, two of them in the left laterocervical region and one in the submandibular region. There were no lesions in any other location.

Complementary examinations
A blood test was performed, which showed no significant alterations, and a cutaneous ultrasound was performed to identify the preauricular tumour, which revealed two satellite adenopathies measuring 6.5 mm laterocervical and a left submandibular adenopathy measuring 20 x 10 mm in diameter associated with an increase in subcutaneous cellular tissue at the level of the left cheek, compatible with oedema, and a discrete increase in the left parotid gland. The bacterial culture was negative but, given the recurrence of the symptoms and the findings of the physical examination, it was decided to perform a PCR for herpes virus, obtaining a positive result for herpes simplex virus type I (HSV I). No biopsy of the lesion was performed due to the family's refusal.

Diagnosis
Herpes simplex virus type 1 folliculitis.

Treatment
Acyclovir in oral suspension 80mg/ml adjusted to weight for seven days, associated with topical antibiotic treatment (fusidic acid twice a day for 7 days) and oral (amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 100 mg/ml every 8 h in oral suspension for one week), together with ibuprofen 20 mg/ml every 8 h for three days.

Evolution
After one week of treatment, the skin lesions and reactive adenopathies resolved completely. Since then, the patient has been followed up in the paediatric dermatology department, with no new recurrences after six months.
