47-year-old male, resident of Cariari in Pococí de Limón. Carrier of type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and chronic liver disease with Child Pugh B clinical stage, secondary to hepatitis B virus infection, with portal hypertension, oesophageal varices and hypersplenism.
The chronic treatment of this patient is tenofovir 300 mg vo per day, omeprazole 20 mg vo per day, propanolol 40 mg vo per day, folic acid 1 mg vo per day, lactulose 30 ml three times a day, spironolactone 100 mg per day and insulin glargine (lantus®) 40 units per day. Regarding his chronic liver disease, he has had no episodes of variceal bleeding and is stable with his last hepatitis B viral load <10 copies/mL; however, his diabetes is not adequately controlled and although he has no obvious target organ damage, he has suboptimal glycosylated haemoglobins, i.e. HbA1C > 7%. (12) The patient has no relevant epidemiological history except that he lives in a humid tropical region such as the province of Limón. This patient consulted for 5 months of dyspnoea at rest, productive cough and haemoptysis. Tuberculosis had previously been ruled out on an outpatient basis, and he consulted on this occasion due to exacerbation of his respiratory symptoms, fever and constitutional symptoms. He was admitted febrile, tachycardic, sweaty, normotensive, with adequate oxygen saturation, without clinical data of hepatic encephalopathy, with cardiopulmonary auscultation without pathological findings, soft abdomen without ascites. Chest X-ray showed an interstitial infiltrate. Laboratory tests on admission to the emergency department were as follows: Haemoglobin: 13.4 g/dl, Leukocytes 7900/uL, Bands 11 %, Platelets 56,000/uL , Creatinine: 0.68 mg/dl, BUN: 21 mg/dl, Glycaemia: 187mg/dl, HIV ELISA negative, HbA1C: 8.2 %,PT: 23 sec, INR: 2.03, PTT: 38 sec, ESR: 21mm3, CRP:11.1 mg/dl. Blood cultures are reported positive in both bottles taken from both upper limbs: 13 and 12 hours respectively, for Pasteurella multocida. Bronchoscopy was performed with bronchial aspirate culture positive for Streptococcus parasanguis and PCR negative for tuberculosis. The result of the biopsy showed undifferentiated lung cancer. The other laboratory tests obtained during his hospitalisation did not differ greatly from the initial ones noted above, although it should be noted here that the biomarkers improved in their entirety with the therapy given. In view of the patient's bacteraemia, he is specifically asked about contact with pets (cats or dogs), which he emphatically denies. However, there is a dog at home, but he insists that it is outside the house and that he has no direct contact with it.
The clinical management of this case was carried out empirically from the beginning with Cefotaxime at the usual doses of 2 g intravenous every 8 hours for 10 days; therefore, his clinical outcome was adequate in this hospitalisation, and the patient was discharged with subsequent monitoring in oncology and gastroenterology.

MICROBIOLOGY
Two bottles of blood culture were received in the laboratory from this patient and were positive after 12 and 13 hours of incubation in automated equipment (Bact/Alert, bioMérieux, Marcy l "Étoile, France). Gram staining showed gram-negative coccobacilli. Subcultures were subcultured from each flask on Columbia Medium with 5% ram's blood and Chocolate Agar (bioMérieux, Marcyl "Étoile, France). They were incubated in 5% CO2 atmosphere at 37 °C for 24 hours, resulting in the growth of small, non-hemolytic, greyish smooth colonies corresponding to a gram-negative, catalase-positive, oxidase-positive coccobacillus. Identification on Vitek 2 Compact GN card (bioMérieux , Marcyl "Étoile, France) was Pasteurella multocida with 95% probability in both isolates. The antibiotic sensitivity test on AST279 card (bioMérieux) is reported sensitive for Betalactams, third generation Cephalosporins, Carbapenemics, Ciprofloxacin, and Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole, intermediate sensitivity for Gentamicin and resistant for Amikacin. Sensitivity to macrolides was not performed.
