Reason for consultation
We began the study of a 69 year old man who presented with pain in the left lower limb for a month of evolution that had been treated with physiotherapy with relative improvement, and which for the last 5 days has been exacerbated, related to a possible muscular overload.
Individual approach
Anamnesis: 69 year old patient referring to muscle overload of one month's duration, treated with physiotherapy with relative improvement, and who for the last 5 days has had a flare-up of this pain, treated again with physiotherapy and local cold, with the cold achieving greater pain relief.
Examination: an increase in the diameter and erythema of the left lower limb was observed, as well as an increase in the local temperature and swelling in comparison with the contralateral lower limb.
Analyses: in an initial blood test carried out at the medical examination of his company that the patient provided, on 29/09/2017, leukocytosis (21,000) with lymphocytosis (15,600 / 74.4%) was observed, so it was decided to repeat the haemogram to confirm these findings, and to extend the study with serology and cytomorphology. Leukocytosis (28,000) with lymphocytosis (20,270 / 72.4%) and positive serology for Epstein-Barr Virus was again evidenced in the CBC.

Complementary tests:
EchoDoppler MMII Left (20/09/2017): popliteal thrombosis partially recanalized and sural. Femoral venous system in good condition. Arterial system within normality. Clinical Judgement: Popliteal sural DVT.
Cytomorphology (30/11/2017): small mature lymphocytes with condensed chromatin nucleus, abundant Grumpetch shadows, no blastic cells. Lymphoproliferative syndrome B type chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL).
Family and community approach
Patient is self-employed as a manager of a ham company. He had no major illnesses currently on his list of problems, and he also did around two hours of physical exercise a day prior to the onset of the thrombotic pathology.

The doctor-patient relationship was absent prior to this episode, as the patient only required medical care sporadically with intervals of years between visits, and since these episodes the relationship has begun to improve.

Clinical judgement
The presentation of the symptoms: increased diameter and erythema of the left lower limb, as well as, increased local temperature and swelling compared to the contralateral lower limb. And although asymptomatic, the presence of leukocytosis with lymphocytosis in analytical tests. There was a possible deep vein thrombosis and pathology of the white series under study.
The following should be considered as differential diagnoses: deep vein thrombosis VS cellulitis VS musculoskeletal pathology. Pathology of the white series. After assessing the clinical history together with the symptoms presented, a possible DVT was diagnosed and treatment was started and confirmed by complementary tests a few days later. Based on the analytical findings, the patient was referred to the Haematology Department to complete the diagnostic study.
The patient's list of problems included: OSAHS with CPAPn, cataracts (operated on) and distal polyneuropathy.

Action plan
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis with low molecular weight heparin and diosmin combined with hesperidin, confirmed a few days later by the Angiology and Vascular Surgery Department. Referral to the Haematology Department given the analytical findings obtained, as well as the results of the cytomorphology.

Evolution
At present, the first reason for consultation, deep vein thrombosis, was resolved with the treatment prescribed. As for the referral to the haematology department, the patient was seen in the outpatient department 3 days after referral. The patient does not currently present B symptoms, and a CT-Body scan was performed on 16/11/2017 in which no pathological alterations were found, neither visceromegaly, nor adenopathies, so they concluded the diagnosis of Binnet's Lymphoproliferative Syndrome B Type LLC Stage A, which currently does not require treatment and is pending review next February.
