A 43-year-old patient presented to the emergency department with fever and general malaise of three weeks' duration. The patient had no family or personal medical or surgical history of interest and only reported taking occasional omeprazole and regular analgesics. He had been an active smoker of 1 pack/day since the age of 12 and a regular beer drinker and occasional gin drinker. Lived with his mother in a rural area of the province of Granada, single and childless. He was engaged in agricultural and livestock tasks so he had daily contact with animals (goats, dogs and chickens), had no recent international travel or risky sexual contact in the last 12 months.

The fever was daily, up to 40oC, of about 3 weeks' duration, predominantly in the evening, with bacteremic features, accompanied by chills, profuse sweating and even nocturnal delirium. He was also associated with severe asthenia, progressive generalised weakness and unweighted weight loss for a year, which had become more pronounced in the last four months. In the anamnesis by organs and apparatus, he only described discrete pharyngeal pain and unspecific abdominal discomfort, with a feeling of abdominal distension, as well as a dry cough without expectoration or dyspnoea of long evolution, which he related to smoking.

Physical examination on arrival showed haemodynamic stability with a tendency to hypotension (temperature 36.4o C, BP 108/62 mmHg, HR 66 bpm, RR 16 rpm and SpO2 98% baseline) and good general condition with mild facial flushing. Normohydrated and normoperfused. Conscious and oriented, with neurological examination compatible with normality. Oropharynx was slightly erythematous with no exudate and no palpable laterocervical, preauricular, supraclavicular, axillary or inguinal lymphadenopathy. Cardiorespiratory auscultation was normal. Hepato-splenomegaly was palpable in the abdomen, but not painful. There was no oedema, signs of DVT, skin lesions or bite marks on the extremities.

Initial complementary tests showed pancytopenia with leukocytes 3280 x 10e3/mcl, neutrophils 36.1% (absolute 1180 x 10e3/mcl), lymphocytes 55.5% (absolute 1820 x 10e3/mcl), haemoglobin 11.6 g/dL with MCV 87 fL and 77000 platelets/mcl. Biochemistry showed mild elevation of LDH (585 IU/L), liver enzymes (GOT 67 U/L, GPT 143 U/L) with dissociated cholestasis (GGT 319 U/L, FA 207 U/L and normal total bilirubin) and CRP 114 mg/L. Renal function and ions were within normal limits. An anaemia study was performed and found an iron level of 27 mcg/dl with a ferritin of 3581 ng/ml, transferrin 175 mg/dl, IST 12.4%, reticulocytes 2.24% and a peripheral blood smear compatible with normality. Finally, in basic coagulation, prothrombin activity was 71% and INR 1.25.

An ECG, chest X-ray in posteroanterior and lateral projections, as well as a simple decubitus abdominal X-ray were performed, both of which were normal. The abdominal ultrasound showed moderate hepatomegaly and splenomegaly with heterogeneous echogenicity. With the diagnoses of fever of intermediate duration, pancytopenia and hepatosplenomegaly, he was admitted to the Infectious Diseases Department.

Differential diagnosis
The differential diagnosis of a patient with fever, pancytopenia and splenomegaly is not uncommon in an Infectious Diseases Department. Generally speaking, there are three possible origins: infectious, tumoural and autoimmune causes, although we cannot forget other miscellaneous causes. Among the infectious aetiologies, there are many micro-organisms that can cause this condition:
a) viruses: HIV infection, herpes virus (HSV, EBV, CMV, VH6) and Parvovirus B19 mainly should be ruled out;
b) considering a bacterial cause, it is necessary to rule out mycobacterial disease (tuberculous and atypical), in its disseminated form, or the possibility of infection by intracellular bacteria (Anaplasma, Ehrlichia...), in addition, sepsis due to pyogenic bacteria may also begin with fever and cytopenias;
c) in terms of parasites, it will be necessary to rule out infection by malaria, Toxoplasma or Leishmania.

In the group of onco-haematological diseases, the possibility of a solid organ tumour with bone marrow infiltration must be taken into account. With regard to haematological diseases, there is a wide range of possibilities in a patient with fever, cytopenias and splenomegaly. Lymphoproliferative disease (mainly splenic lymphoma and tricholeukaemia), myelofibrosis or myelodysplastic syndrome must be ruled out.

Although less likely, we should also consider ruling out autoimmune diseases or connective tissue diseases, mainly systemic lupus erythematosus, sarcoidosis and much less frequently rheumatoid arthritis such as Felty's syndrome.

Within the miscellaneous group, the clinical picture could correspond to a haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis syndrome. Although less likely, histiocytosis or paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria could also be ruled out.

With this wide range of possibilities, we must fit together the data offered by the patient to reach a definitive diagnosis. This is a gradual process in which specific complementary tests are often necessary.

Evolution
During admission, serologies were requested for hepatotropic virus, HIV, Parvovirus B19, HSV, HSV6, HIV, lupus and Brucella which were negative, serologies for CMV and EBV with positive IgG and negative IgM, and urinary antigen for Leishmania spp which was also negative. As part of the study, a thoracic-abdominal CT scan was also requested, showing only moderate hepato-splenomegaly with no evidence of pleuro-pulmonary or mediastinal alterations, hepatic LOES or adenopathies. In view of these results, a bone marrow puncture-aspiration was performed, which was non-specific, where no haemophagocytosis phenomena, parasites, dysplasia, myelofibrosis or pathological cellular infiltrate were observed. During his admission to the ward, the patient remained haemodynamically stable at all times, but with a daily high fever of up to 40oC that was difficult to control, with the general condition being slightly affected when he remained apyretic. Multiple blood cultures were obtained during admission and all were negative. Due to the fever with elevated liver enzymes and cytopenias, it was decided to start empirical treatment with doxycycline, which was withdrawn after a week as no improvement was observed.
Given the absence of diagnosis and the fact that the patient continued with daily fever, it was decided jointly by the Infectious Diseases, Haematology and General Surgery Departments to perform a splenectomy on suspicion of splenic lymphoproliferative syndrome.
After the intervention, the patient began to improve, with a decrease in fever, improvement in general condition and recovery of the cytopenias.
The pathological anatomy report of the spleen described abundant haemophagocytosis phenomena. After learning of this, a PCR test for Leishmania in the spleen was requested and was positive. The patient was treated with liposomal amphotericin B at the usual doses (3 cycles of 5 mg/kg/day separated by 5 days) with very good clinical evolution, total recovery and no recurrence after 2 years of follow-up.

Final diagnosis
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) secondary to leishmaniasis.
