HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
78-year-old woman. She is hypertensive, diabetic on oral treatment and hyperuricemic. In addition, she had an infiltrating breast carcinoma treated 8 years ago with radical mastectomy, chemotherapy and radiotherapy, and is currently free of disease. Hepatitis B cured. Intrathoracic goitre. As cardiological history, she has permanent atrial fibrillation treated with direct-acting anticoagulant and, in the face of severe symptomatic aortic stenosis, due to a history of thoracic radiation, percutaneous replacement with Corevalve Evolut 26 transfemoral TAVI implantation was chosen one year ago, with no incidents.
On regular treatment with digoxin 0.5 mg (1-0-0), dabigatran 150 mg (1-0-1), valsartan/amlodipine 160/5 mg (1-0-0), furosemide 40 (1-0-0), allopurinol 100 (0-1-0) and metformin 850 (0-1-0). She reported febrile symptoms of one week's evolution, with fever of more than 38 ̊C thermometrically measured, treated with fosfomycin by her general practitioner for suspected urinary tract infection, with little improvement. Twenty-four hours after starting antibiotic treatment, she began with liquid diarrhoea without pathological products and intense periumbilical pain, also associated with the progressive appearance of oedema in the legs and progressive dyspnoea, for which she went to the emergency department. She denied cough or expectoration, as well as chest pain, dizziness or syncope. She also had no neurological focality. She was admitted to the internal medicine department as a possible complicated urinary tract infection for study and treatment. On examination, she had a blood pressure of 95/62 mmHg, a heart rate of 85 bpm, fever of 37.9 ̊C and was eupneic with nasal goggles at 2 l/min (O2 saturation 97%). Jugular venous pressure is increased.
On auscultation she is arrhythmic at 80 bpm, with murmur in aortic focus II/VI and normal second sound; she also has hypoventilation in the bases and crackles in the midfields. The abdomen was soft, depressible and painful at the epigastric level, with no evidence of peritoneal irritation or visceromegaly. Lower extremities with oedema with pitting up to the knee, with no evidence of venous thrombosis. Peripheral pulses present and symmetrical. No peripheral stigmata of endocarditis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram: atrial fibrillation at 80 bpm, narrow QRS, normal axis. Repolarisation abnormalities corresponding to a digitalis tray. Chest X-ray: cardiomegaly. TAVI in aortic position. Vascular redistribution and fluid in cystic cracks compatible with heart failure. Widening of the superior mediastinum compatible with known endothoracic goitre. 
Analysis: Biochemistry: glucose 98 mg/dl, Cr 1 mg/dl, GFR 54 ml/min, urea 59 mg/dl, Na 125 mEq/l, K 5.8 mEq/l, digoxinemia 2.3 ng/dl. Thyroid hormones normal. Liver function tests: GOT 320 IU/l, GPT 270 IU/l, total bilirubin 2.64 mg/dl (direct bilirubin 2.22 mg/dl), albumin 2.14 g/dl, amylase 449 U/l. Iron profile: iron 156 μg/dl, transferrin 120 mg/dl, IST 139%, ferritin 1,755 ng/ml. ProBNP 3,410 pg/ml. Infectious markers: CRP 152 mg/l, PCT 6.9 ng/ml. Haemogram: leucocytes 21,000/μl with 12% of keys, Hb 7.8 g/dl, platelets 91,000/μl. Coagulation: INR 1.88, PT 42%.
Blood cultures: two positive series for methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus, with positive synergism with aminoglycosides. Urine: isolated red blood cells. No leucocyturia or bacteriuria, negative nitrites Faeces: usual flora, no parasites and negative Clostridium difficile toxin. Serology: HIV and HCV negative. Anti HBs and Anti HBc positive.
Autoimmunity study: ANA, ANCA, Anti native DNA, ENAS, CH 50 and C4 normal and/or negative. Transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle of normal diameter and thickness with normal global and segmental systolic function. Diastolic dysfunction. Slight dilatation of the left atrium. Normofunctioning aortic biological prosthesis with known trivial insufficiency. Mild mitral insufficiency and tricuspid insufficiency, with mild pulmonary hypertension at rest. No images suggestive of endocarditis are detected.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: CoreValve TAVI type aortic bioprosthesis with several small mobile images, mainly at the level of the right coronary leaflet equivalent and another small image, with identical characteristics, adhered to the stent at the same level, suggestive of endocarditis.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
On admission, antibiotic treatment was started empirically with ceftriaxone with initial suspicion of pyelonephritis, later changing to cloxacillin, rifampicin and gentamicin at a dose of endocarditis due to high clinical suspicion, despite the initial negative transthoracic echocardiogram. The study was later completed with a transesophageal echocardiogram that showed images compatible with endocarditis on TAVI, establishing the diagnosis with positive blood cultures for S. aureus. Treatment with gentamicin was maintained due to microbiological evidence of synergy with cloxacillin, but the patient suffered a rapid deterioration of renal function, with a drop in glomerular filtration rate to 6 ml/min. Rapidly progressive worsening with evidence of septic shock with anuria, decreased level of consciousness and coagulopathy, refractory to initial measures. The case was discussed with cardiology, internal medicine and the infectious diseases department, and in this critical situation, further valve replacement or other aggressive measures were rejected, and the patient died in the context of septic shock secondary to endocarditis on TAVI.

DIAGNOSIS
Late endocarditis on TAVI aortic bioprosthesis due to Staphylococcus aureus.
Acute renal failure in the context of gentamicin.
Septic shock with multi-organ failure.
Death.

