We present the case of a 45-year-old male, a sailor by profession. He smokes more than 15 packs/year and has no drug allergies or relevant medical history. He does not undergo home treatment. His only history was a trip to Dakar (Senegal) more than 6 months earlier.

She came to the emergency department with an afternoon fever of up to 40oC for 5 days. Anamnesis revealed pain in the left buttock radiating to the ipsilateral lower limb and the inguinal region. She had no recollection of previous pelvic trauma. She had no respiratory, digestive or genitourinary symptoms. She denies having abused drugs by parenteral route or having had unsafe sexual relations. No contact with animals or ingestion of unpasteurised food.

During the emergency physical examination, the patient was in pain, although he was conscious, oriented and cooperative. He was well hydrated and perfused. Baseline vital signs were unremarkable: temperature 35.4oC, blood pressure 122/88 mmHg, heart rate 62 bpm and O2 saturation 98% on room air.

Cardiorespiratory auscultation and abdominal examination showed no pathological signs. Examination of the left gluteal region revealed severe pain on fingertip palpation and passive mobilisation of the left lower limb. Standing upright was partially limited by pain. Lassègue and Bragard manoeuvres were negative. There were no cutaneous inflammatory signs such as erythema, oedema or local hyperthermia. Left renal fist percussion was negative. Palpation showed no nodules or areas of fluctuation. Blood analysis revealed non-specific signs of systemic inflammation. The haemogram showed neutrophilia without leukocytosis with 88.4% neutrophils, 9.7% lymphocytes and a slight thrombocytosis of 470,000 ud/μL. Biochemistry showed an elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) of 42.69 mg/L. Both renal function parameters and ions were in the normal range.

The plain X-ray of the lumbosacral region showed lumbar spinal rectification with no other relevant radiological signs. Given the patient's persistence, the exuberance of the clinical manifestations (fever, gluteal pain and functional impotence on ambulation) and the findings in the complementary tests (neutrophilia with elevated CRP), it was decided to admit the patient to hospital for pain control and to complete the diagnostic studies.

During hospital admission, an intravenous contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis showed an abscessed collection measuring 32 x 16 x 53 mm in the thickness of the left iliac muscle (upper and left paramedial muscle areas). The lesion showed peripheral enhancement, imprinted in the adjacent pelvic fat and was multiloculated. Blood tests after the day of admission showed an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 38 mm/h and a significantly increased CRP of 126.16 mg/L compared to the previous measurement. Although the haemogram and coagulation were normal, the iron metabolism parameters were altered: ferritin 602.7 mg/mL, serum iron 36.1 μg/dL and transferrin 189 mg/dL. Laboratory tests showed a pattern of dissociated cholestasis, with a total bilirubin of 0.81 mg/dL, a gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT) of 302 IU/L and an alkaline phosphatase of 206 IU/L. Renal function parameters, serum ions and autoimmunity markers were within the normal range. HLA B27 antigen termination test was negative. Serology for HIV, HAV, HBV, HCV, Epstein Barr Virus (EBV), Cytomegalovirus (CMV), Brucella spp. and syphilis reaginic antibody were also negative. Given the clinical suspicion and the support of the complementary tests, it was decided to start empirical antibiotherapy in venoclysis with cloxacillin 1 g every 6 hours and ceftriaxone 2 g every 24 hours.

Differential diagnosis
The differential diagnosis focuses on entities that primarily affect the sacroiliac joint, divided into 3 large groups: inflammatory, degenerative and infectious.
- Inflammatory: in general, they present a clinical form characterised by morning stiffness and improvement with movement. Ankylosing spondylitis usually presents with HLA B27 positivity and has a subacute or chronic course. The presence of a negative HLA B27 test and an acute course rules out this entity. Juvenile spondyloarthropathy, like ankylosing spondylitis, usually has chronic manifestations and is HLA B27 positive. Imaging techniques usually show signs of enthesitis of the sacroiliac musculature. Our patient had an abscessed collection in the belly of the left iliac muscle and joint involvement rather than muscle entheses. In reactive arthritis, it is common to find joint inflammation together with conjunctivitis or urethritis at presentation, symptoms that our patient did not report. Psoriatic arthritis is very unlikely as the patient did not report a history of cutaneous psoriasis. As for enteropathic arthritis, during the diagnostic and therapeutic process the patient did not experience digestive symptoms, so this entity is also ruled out.
- Degenerative: due to the proximity of the sacroiliac joint to the lumbosacral trunk, injury to the superior gluteal and obturator nerves can mimic the pathology of this joint. Lumbar herniated discs can also injure the sciatic nerve in its pathway, resulting in low back pain or lumbosciatica. Injury to the sciatic nerve can lead to functional impotence of the affected lower limb and, occasionally, loss of sphincter control. The patient presented with gluteal pain radiating to the left lower limb and inguinal region, not purely lumbar, with negative Lasègue and Bragard signs. The differential diagnosis included osteoarthritis of the hip. Although it is a disease of advanced age, it can occur in younger patients. However, the clinical manifestations tend to be more severe and consist of pain, joint stiffness and functional impotence with a chronic course.
- Infectious: our patient had leukocytosis with neutrophilia, elevated CRP and fever, signs of infectious aetiology. Staphylococcus aureus is the causative agent most frequently implicated in this type of clinical presentation. It usually causes infection of the sacroiliac joint through haematogenous spread. Pseudomonas spp. are the most frequently implicated gram-negative microorganisms, although they are typical of immunocompromised patients. Other agents involved are Brucella spp. and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Aetiological identification is based on positivity for growth in microbiological cultures. Salmonella spp. usually manifest with gastrointestinal symptoms as the most common form of presentation, although multiple conditions have been described.

Evolution
The initial clinical course was poor despite empirical antibiotic therapy. The patient maintained an afternoon low-grade fever and intolerance to standing due to pain, requiring continuous intravenous perfusion with morphine derivatives. Parenteral instillation of morphics led to acute urinary retention and persistent constipation, which were resolved by bladder catheterisation and laxatives, respectively. In view of this clinical situation, it was decided to change the empirical antibiotic therapy. Piperacillin-tazobactam was started at a dose of 4/0.5 g every 8 hours. An epidural catheter was placed to achieve locoregional anaesthesia by continuous infusion of ropivacaine and fentanyl. Blood cultures sown in aerobic and anaerobic medium, which were drawn on admission, were negative (performed under empirical parenteral antibiotic coverage). The tuberculin test (PPD or Mantoux) was also negative after 48 hours.

Given the clinical-radiological suspicion of an abdominal septic focus and in light of the analytical pattern of dissociated cholestasis, an abdominal ultrasound and colonoscopy were requested, which ruled out an intra-abdominal abscess. The radiological study was completed by lumbo-sacro-pelvic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). CT-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the abscessed lesion was performed for culture of pyogenic material. T2-weighted lumbo-sacro-pelvic MRI showed acute left sacroiliitis and an abscess in the left iliac muscle. The volume of the lesion was slightly smaller (5 x 2 x 2 x 2 mm) compared to the CT scan performed immediately after hospital admission. Parenteral cloxacillin was reintroduced pending the results of cultures of pyogenic material removed by CT-guided FNA.

Culture of the abscess material identified Salmonella enterica sensitive to quinolones and third generation cephalosporins.

The patient completed 6 months of treatment with oral ciprofloxacin at a dose of 750 mg every 12 hours. A good clinical response was obtained and radiological improvement was observed with a decrease in bone oedema and resolution of the abscessed collection.

Final diagnosis
Left septic sacroiliitis with abscessed collection of the iliac muscle due to Salmonella enterica.

