This is a 64-year-old woman who came to the emergency department of a tertiary hospital complaining of erythematous lesions on both hands and swelling, pain and functional impotence of the right wrist joint. She had a biological aortic valve prosthesis, implanted fifteen months before the current consultation. Examination of the patient revealed that she was febrile (38oC) and Osler nodules were observed on the hands and feet, as well as nail haemorrhages. Blood tests showed leukocytosis (12.8 x 106/L). Blood cultures were taken and a chest ultrasound showed a large vegetation on the prosthetic valve annulus. She was diagnosed with prosthetic valve endocarditis and treatment was started with vancomycin, gentamicin and rifampicin at appropriate doses. After two days of evolution, the patient showed decreased level of consciousness and right hemiparesis. A normal head CT scan and lumbar puncture were performed. CSF biochemistry showed no alterations and a sample was sent to the Microbiology Department. It was decided to perform surgery for a new valve replacement, but the patient died eight hours later due to cardiorespiratory arrest, before she could be operated on. No autopsy was performed. Blood cultures and cerebrospinal fluid were negative after seven days of incubation. Blind passages of blood cultures were given and all culture media sown showed whitish cream coloured colonies with a membranous appearance after three days of incubation. Microscopic examination revealed yeasts, short filaments and arthroconidia.

The micro-organism grew in the subculture after 72 h of incubation on standard culture media. The vast majority of yeasts that cause infections in humans can have these characteristics. However, Candida species usually grow within 24 h on standard media, so the yeast may be thought to belong to a slow-growing species (Cryptococcus, Trichosporon, Rhodotorula, Geotrichum, Galactomyces). The macroscopic appearance of the colonies (cream-coloured and membranous appearance) helps to rule out pigmented yeasts such as Rhodotorula and Sporobolomyces, which are red and orange, respectively. However, the most significant data is the microscopic morphology (yeast-like organisms, with hyphae and arthroconidia). The presence of hyphae helps to rule out a genus such as Cryptococcus which does not usually produce filaments. The presence of arthroconidia helps to make a presumptive identification. Arthroconidia are a type of asexual reproduction, consisting of the generation of conidia by simple fragmentation of the hyphae in the area where the septa are located. It is typical of several species belonging to the genera Trichosporon, Galactomyces and Geotrichum.

Within the arthroconidial group, three species cause the vast majority of infections in humans: Galactomyces geotrichum (Geotrichum candidum), Dipodascus capitatus (Geotrichumcapitatum) and Trichosporon beigelii. The latter can be considered as a genospecies and in recent taxonomic classifications has been divided into multiple species, of which at least 6 are pathogenic to humans (T. asahii, T. cutaneum, T. inkin, T. mucoides, T. ovoides and T. asteroides). Of these, T. asahii is the most important from a pathogenic point of view, as it is the one that causes almost all cases of deep Trichosporon infections. To distinguish between the three arthroconidial species requires morphological study, biochemical tests and complementary techniques. Macroscopic morphology does not help to differentiate between the three species, as the colonies of all species are white or cream coloured and membranous in appearance. Microscopic morphology is somewhat more specific, although not definitive, as sometimes only hyphae and arthroconidia are observed. The microscopic morphology of D. capitatus is characterised by narrow hyphae branching at acute angles, with anelloconidia and endospores. G. geotrichum usually has thicker hyphae branching at right angles. T. beigelii has variable morphology as it is a genospecies.

Generally speaking, it usually has fine disarticulate hyphae, with abundant formacubic and sometimes appressoria (narrow filamentous structures, attached to the hyphae and branching very irregularly) and giant spindle cells. Both biochemical tests and complementary techniques are used as confirmatory methods of identification. Trichosporon species are easily distinguished from Galactomyces and Dipodascus as they assimilate a large number of carbohydrates and produce urea hydrolysis. G. geotrichum and D. capitatus assimilate fewer carbohydrates (glucose, galactose and some others depending on the strain) and do not hydrolyse urea. These two species can be distinguished because Galactomyces does not usually grow well at 37oC and because many strains also assimilate xylose. None of the three species ferment carbohydrates.
