Anamnesis
A 27-year-old woman with a history of iron deficiency anaemia of 4 years of evolution on treatment with oral iron was admitted for febrile symptoms of 14 days of evolution, accompanied by intense asthenia, general malaise and dry cough without associated expectoration. The patient also noted the appearance of lymphadenopathies located in the axillary region and on the left costal grid.
The dermatology department was consulted due to the sudden appearance of asymptomatic skin lesions in the last 24 hours on the upper limbs, trunk, face and, to a lesser extent, on the lower limbs. The patient denied recent exotic travel, risky sexual relations, insect bites or any other relevant history.
The patient had already presented with similar symptoms two years earlier, in the form of general malaise, arthromyalgia, headache and the appearance of right laterocervical adenopathy. In the complementary tests for this episode, only iron deficiency anaemia and elevated acute phase reactants stood out. The rest of the values in the blood tests were normal and the serologies were negative.

Physical examination
The patient had multiple oval erythematous-violaceous erythematous-edematous plaques, some of which were more poorly demarcated, predominantly on the back of both arms, ventral aspect of the forearms, neckline, back and some isolated lesions on the back of the thighs and face. There were no oropharyngeal lesions, except for the saburral tongue. On the left costal grid, there were two subcutaneous masses of hard consistency, scarcely movable, somewhat painful, approximately 2 cm in diameter. There were also erythematous oedematous lesions on the surface of the masses. There was no lymphatic tract suggestive of lymphangitis or associated soft tissue infection.

Complementary tests
Additional tests initially performed in the ED showed anaemia with Hb 9.9 and mild lymphopenia (700lymph/μl). Serology tests (HIV, hepatotropic viruses, Mycoplasma, CMV, Epstein-Barr virus, Parvovirus B19, syphilis, Coxiella) were negative.
Subsequently, alterations in the autoimmune profile were detected with the presence of ANA positive at 1/640 titre (mottled pattern), anti DNA negative, anti RO positive >100 (range: 0-25), anti La negative, anti RNP positive >100 (range: 0-25) and anti SM positive >100 (range: 0-25).
CT scan showed multiple bilateral axillary and subpectoral axillary adenopathies, mild hepatosplenomegaly, mild pleural effusion and thickened interlobular septa. The nodule described adjacent to the inferoexternal quadrant of the left breast was more suggestive of necrotic adenopathy than of a breast nodule.
Based on these findings, a biopsy-excision of the adenopathic mass located in the rib cage was performed. The biopsy revealed the presence of multifocal necrotising lymphadenitis without granulomas or associated infectious agents. Immunohistochemical staining showed a predominance of CD3/CD8 T lymphocytes in the necrotic areas with the presence of granzyme B positive cells and CD68 histiocytes, together with occasional plasma cells. The remaining B and T lymphoid markers ruled out the presence of neoplastic and Reed-Sternberg cells.
These findings were compatible with a diagnosis of multifocal necrotising lymphadenitis or Kikuchi's disease.
On the other hand, the skin biopsy showed an epidermis with focal lichenoid changes, with vacuolar degeneration of the basal layer and necrotic keratinocytes at these levels. In the dermis, a perivascular and interstitial lymphohistiocytic inflammatory infiltrate with no neutrophils or eosinophils was prominent in the mid and deep dermis.

Diagnosis
Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease or necrotising histiocytic lymphadenitis.

Treatment
Prednisone at a dose of 0.5/mg/kg/day was prescribed, as well as symptomatic treatment with paracetamol.

Evolution
During the first five days, febrile peaks of up to 39o persisted with associated mild dyspnoea and malaise.
The skin lesions progressed in the first week to a more contusiform appearance. Subsequently, they acquired a more residual macular appearance until complete resolution. The patient was discharged after two weeks with resolution of the systemic symptoms and skin lesions.

