A 47-year-old man from Bolivia who had lived in Argentina and Brazil because of his work as a bricklayer. He had been in Spain for three months. His medical history included a history of haemoptotic sputum for which he had been treated in his country for a month with a drug that he had not remembered for 6 years. He had been asymptomatic since then with good functional capacity as he had not stopped working all this time. He came to the emergency department of our centre for 5-7 days with a progressive increase in dyspnoea with orthopnoea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea that made him unable to work. He did not report fever or any other symptoms. The examination revealed a mitral diastolic murmur, a third murmur and bilateral crackles from both apexes. Chest X-ray showed a bilateral interstitial oedema pattern in butterfly wings compatible with heart failure. Echocardiogram revealed dilated cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 10%. The ECG showed non-specific repolarisation abnormalities and occasional bigeminy, but never ventricular tachycardia. In view of the suspected infectious origin of the process, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for Trypanosoma cruzi was requested and was positive, and Ig G serology, also positive, which confirmed the chronicity of the process. The patient also reported vague abdominal pain which, together with constipation, was the manifestation of megacolon, which was confirmed radiologically. With the diagnosis of chronic Chagas disease with myocardial and colonic involvement, treatment was started with diuretics, ACE inhibitors, carvedilol and anticoagulation, with the patient showing very good clinical evolution and being asymptomatic 24 hours after admission. The megacolon was resolved with a fibre diet and laxatives. The patient is currently awaiting evaluation for cardiac transplantation.

One of the possible collaterals enrolled presented with fever and acute rhinopharyngitis, and another with controlled hypertension and cardiac arrhythmia due to atrial fibrillation with controlled ventricular response, the rest were clinically healthy; however, two of them had a history of Leishmaniasis and had received blood transfusion. All were non-reactive for anti-T. cruzi antibodies by ELISA and IFA.
