A 69-year-old woman with a history of arterial hypertension and rheumatoid arthritis on baseline treatment for a year with subcutaneous methotrexate at a dose of 15 mg weekly. In the context of a recent flare-up of this pathology, 90 mg of oral prednisone daily had been added to her usual treatment two weeks earlier, with an initial dose of 80 mg of intramuscular methylprednisolone.
Having previously been well, the patient presented cognitive deterioration over 48 hours of evolution characterised by disorientation and bradypsychia, as well as non-thermometric febrile sensation, for which reason she was transferred by her relatives to the Emergency Department of a High Resolution Hospital. In the following hours, her level of consciousness deteriorated, which is why it was decided to transfer her to her third level referral hospital. The first clinical examination of the patient revealed the following data: axillary temperature 38.1oC, blood pressure 130/80 mmHg, good distal perfusion with capillary filling of less than two seconds, and heart rate 80 beats per minute. The cardiorespiratory, abdominal and skin examination showed no notable alterations. In relation to the neurological examination, the patient showed marked ideomotor slowness and temporo-spatial disorientation, with a Glasgow scale score of 15. At that time she was able to obey simple commands but not more complex ones. Brudzinski's sign was present and the rest of the examination was normal. On the basis of these clinical data, serial blood cultures were taken and an urgent computerised axial tomography (CAT) scan of the skull was performed, which revealed no pathological findings. Following this imaging technique, a lumbar puncture was performed to extract cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which showed hyperproteinorrache (584 mg/dL), countless leukocytes at the expense of polymorphonuclear cells, and glycorrhachia (36 mg/dL), corresponding to a CSF/serum ratio of 0.23. Gram staining showed gram-positive cocci, with a negative determination of pneumococcal antigen by CSF immunoassay (BinaxNOW®). The haemogram performed in the ED showed intense leukocytosis (32,440céls/mm3 with 93% segmented cells), while the only pathological finding in the biochemistry was a C-reactive protein (CRP) value of 479 mg/L.

Evolution
Based on the patient's clinical history and epidemiological background, we initially thought that the result of the CSF pneumococcal antigen test might be a false negative, so empirical intravenous treatment was started with cefotaxime (300 mg/kg/day) and vancomycin (1 g every 8 hours) according to the specific updated guidelines. However, the clinical evolution was unfavourable in the following hours, and the patient developed global aphasia and arterial hypertension figures compatible with hypertensive emergency, for which reason it was decided to admit him to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the centre. In this unit, ampicillin (2 grams every 4 hours) was added to the treatment due to the clinical severity and the fact that the patient was over 50 years of age, which has been shown to be a risk factor for the development of meningitis due to Listeria monocytogenes. The Clinical Microbiology Service isolated Staphylococcus aureus in the CSF, whose susceptibility profile subsequently showed a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) to cloxacillin ≤ 0.25 μg/mL, on the basis of which a targeted treatment with cloxacillin IV 2 grams every 4 hours was performed. No bacteraemia was observed at any time during admission. Since the pathogen's entry point into the central nervous system was unknown, an MRI of the thorax and abdomen was performed, which revealed an extensive multiloculated right paravertebral collection that entered the spinal canal between the vertebral bodies L3, L4 and posterior arches, extending to the retroperitoneum and right psoas. Percutaneous drainage of the collection was performed using the Seldinger technique by the Interventional Radiology Department. In a sample of the purulent material drained, S. aureus was isolated again with the same resistance profile and MICs. Subsequently, there was a gradual improvement in the patient, including the neurological symptoms described, until she became asymptomatic. A subsequent CT scan showed the disappearance of the paravertebral collection, which together with the normalisation of acute phase reactants was used to decide the final duration of IV treatment.

Final diagnosis
The final diagnosis was meningitis due to methicillin-sensitive S. aureus secondary to a paraspinal abscess in a patient immunosuppressed by treatment with corticosteroids and methotrexate. Despite the various complementary tests performed, no gateway could be demonstrated. In our opinion, the origin of the collection could have been the ipsilateral intramuscular puncture that the patient received two weeks before the onset of the described symptoms as the initial dose of the corticosteroid treatment prescribed for her rheumatoid arthritis flare-up, as we found no other possible entry point in her clinical history or in conversations with the patient. In any case, we cannot rule out with absolute certainty that the abscess appeared after the meningeal symptoms. We also believe that the role of iatrogenesis in this case is very important, as cellular and humoral immunosuppression secondary to methotrexate and corticosteroids played an important role in the initial pathophysiology of the condition and in its subacute clinical course.
