A 41-year-old woman from Venezuela with no past history of interest came to the emergency department with a 4-day history of fever with general malaise, myalgia and central thoracic pain with pleuro-pericardial characteristics.
On arrival at the ED, he presented with fair general condition and haemodynamic instability with hypotension (BP 87/59 mmHg), tachycardia (100lpm), fever (38.3oC), poor distal perfusion, as well as hyperlactacidemia (4.2 mmol/l). The examination revealed muffled cardiac tones, the rest being normal.
The electrocardiogram showed low voltages. Laboratory tests showed elevated NT-proBNP (up to 18528 pg/ml) and troponin (plateau around 300 ng/l) with no other abnormalities. In view of these findings, an urgent echocardiogram was performed showing global hypokinesia and systolic dysfunction of both ventricles with minimal pericardial effusion. Blood cultures and nasopharyngeal exudate were taken for influenza (given that he consulted during the epidemic season) and he was admitted to the coronary unit with a diagnosis of cardiogenic shock due to probable fulminant myocarditis.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging was performed given its high yield for the diagnosis of myocarditis and its lower invasiveness compared to endomyocardial biopsy, which showed signs of oedema and inflammatory changes in the left ventricle with a diffuse distribution compatible with the diagnosis of myocarditis.
Regarding the aetiological diagnosis, we must consider infections (viral infections being the most frequent), drugs, toxins, systemic autoimmune diseases (SAE) and metabolic diseases mainly. Since the patient was not taking any drugs or toxins, this possibility was ruled out. With regard to SAE, suspicion was low given the acute onset and the lack of extracardiac manifestations both previously and at the present time, also presenting a negative autoimmunity panel (ANA, ENA, antiDNA and RF). Screening for the most common endocrine-metabolic diseases was performed, which was also negative.
With regard to viral infections, the most frequently described were enterovirus, adenovirus, parvovirus B19 and some viruses of the herpesvirus family (HHV6, CMV and EBV). Given the patient's origin, screening for tropical infections such as T. cruzi was also performed and was negative. The PCR was positive for influenza A virus and the definitive diagnosis was fulminant myocarditis due to influenza A (H1N1).
