Anamnesis
A 73-year-old man consulted for a very intense headache with explosive onset. He had no known vascular risk factors, and his only medical history was uncomplicated recurrent renoureteral colic. As a child, he had suffered an ocular trauma, which left a moderate decrease in visual acuity in the right eye. He had no family history of primary headaches and one of his brothers had died at the age of 36 from a brain tumour. She was not taking any regular medication.
Four days before admission, while standing upright and without having made any effort or performed Valsalva manoeuvres, she suddenly began to experience a very intense tearing pain (10/10 on the visual analogue scale), located in the left retroocular region, which within a few hours spread to the entire left frontal region. He then went to his health centre, where a systolic blood pressure of over 200 mmHg was detected, which was lowered to normal values with two 25 mg captopril tablets. He was diagnosed with hypertensive crisis and was prescribed paracetamol as symptomatic treatment for his headache. Three days later, she came to the hospital because her headache persisted despite the prescribed analgesia. The headache remained in the same location continuously. The intensity was somewhat lower (7/10), although occasional exacerbations of very intense pain lasting a few seconds were added to the baseline pain. These paroxysms were not reproduced by palpation of the area, nor were they triggered by gestures such as washing the face, talking, chewing, brushing the teeth or shaving. However, he did notice a slight discomfort with pressure on the left eyeball. The headache did not subside at night and made it very difficult for him to fall asleep. It was not accompanied by ocular or facial autonomic symptoms, nor by photophobia, phonophobia or osmophobia. With the pain, the patient felt nausea at times, which did not induce vomiting. No fever or other associated symptoms were reported.

Physical examination
On arrival at the ED, blood pressure was 175/115 mmHg, which required treatment with a nitroglycerine infusion pump to normalise. The patient did not present dyspnoea, palpitations or chest pain.
Ophthalmological assessment was first requested from the emergency department. The ophthalmologists did not detect any signs of acute ocular pathology. There were no alterations in the anterior segment of the eye, the intraocular pressure was 13 mmHg and the ophthalmoscopic examination was normal. The patient was then referred for assessment by the Neurology Service.
On physical examination the patient was in good general condition, with normal hydration and normal skin and mucous membrane colouring. He was eupnoeic, afebrile and with a central rhythmic heart rate of 66 bpm. The carotid pulse was palpable, symmetrical, and no vascular murmurs were heard. Cardiopulmonary, abdominal and lower limb examination showed no abnormalities.
In the neurological examination the patient was conscious, alert and oriented, with no alterations in the rest of the cognitive functions. Confrontational campimetry was normal. Visual acuity in the right eye was 0.4 (without improvement with pinhole) and in the left eye it was unity. There was no dyschromatopsia. The fundus was normal, with no papillary oedema. His pupils were pharmacologically dilated, so no pupillary abnormalities could be assessed. No limitations in eye movements, diplopia or nystagmus were detected, and eye movements did not cause increased pain. Palpebral alterations, conjunctival injection or proptosis were also absent. The examination of the 5th cranial nerve, both in its motor and sensory function, was normal. The examination of the 7th cranial nerve and the lower cranial nerves was also normal. The rest of the neurological examination was also normal. There were no limitations in cervical movements and signs of meningismus were negative. Palpation of the supraorbital notch, trochlear region and infraorbital foramen did not trigger in situ or referred pain. The temporal arteries had good pulsatility, and were neither thickened nor hypersensitive. There were also no tender points on palpation of other structures of the head and neck.

Complementary tests
- A complete blood count was drawn, with C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and cardiac enzymes within normal limits.
- The electrocardiogram showed no abnormalities.
- The cranial computed tomography (CT) scan showed no signs of intraaxial or extraaxial bleeding or acute ischaemia, nor dilatation of the ventricular system.
- Given that four days had passed since the onset of the clinical picture, which had debuted as a thunderclap headache, and given the low sensitivity of CT for detecting subarachnoid haemorrhage after 12 hours of evolution1 , a lumbar puncture was performed for diagnostic purposes. Cerebrospinal fluid outflow pressure was normal, xanthochromia was ruled out and cytobiochemical analysis showed a normal cell count (1 haemocyte and 0 leukocytes per microlitre), together with normal protein and glucurorachia.

Evolution
In the absence of a clinical aetiological diagnosis and the normality of the tests available in the Emergency Department, and given the persistence of intense and incoercible headache despite treatment with metamizole, ketorolac and chlorpromazine intravenously, it was decided to admit the patient to the Neurology ward to continue the study and for analgesic control.
The day after admission, the patient had a rash on the left frontal region, with numerous erythematous papules, grouped vesicles and crusts, which outlined the root of the scalp and did not extend beyond the midline. Papules, vesicles and crusts characteristic of herpes zoster in the territory of the left ophthalmic nerve (V1). This skin involvement confined to a specific dermatome, in this case the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve (V1), was diagnostic of herpes zoster due to reactivation of the varicella zoster virus, which had settled in Gasser's ganglion after a primary varicella infection. In addition, there was significant left palpebral oedema, with difficulty in opening the palpebral fissure, and the presence of a lesion at the level of the nasal root (Hutchinson's sign), indicative of infection of the nasociliary branch of the ophthalmic nerve, which also innervates the eyeball2. We therefore rushed to request an ophthalmological examination, which revealed conjunctivitis, corneal involvement with disseminated superficial punctate keratitis, no stromal involvement and no signs of uveitis.

Diagnosis
Herpes zoster in the territory of the ophthalmic nerve (V1).

Treatment
Treatment was started jointly with oral acyclovir at a dose of 800 mg five times a day and topical treatment with the same antiviral in ocular ointment, accompanied by bacterial superinfection prophylaxis. Treatment was maintained for 10 days. The clinical picture evolved satisfactorily in terms of skin involvement, so that the vesiculocosteal lesions disappeared in less than two weeks with no ophthalmological sequelae. However, the patient began to suffer from post-infectious neuralgia in the affected territory, which did not subside with maximum doses of oral gabapentin. He is currently on trial with a 5% lidocaine local adhesive dressing.
