A 63-year-old man came to the emergency department with a 6-day history of high fever of up to 40oC, accompanied by intense dysuria and pollakiuria, for which he had been prescribed Ciprofloxacin 500mg every 12h 5 days earlier in primary care without improvement. His medical history included: doubtful allergy to propifenazone, non-insulin-dependent type 2 diabetes mellitus, mixed hyperlipaemia, and he had undergone appendectomy in childhood and laparoscopic cholecystectomy one month before admission.

On examination he was febrile (39oC), conscious and oriented, eupneic at rest, well nourished, hydrated, perfused and haemodynamically stable. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was rhythmic, without murmurs, with preserved vesicular murmur, without added noises. The abdomen was soft, depressible, no masses or megaliths were palpable. Slight discomfort on palpation of the epigastrium, without defence or peritonism. Preserved hydro-aerial sounds and bilateral non-painful renal fist percussion. No findings of interest were detected in the neurological examination. No skin lesions or other noteworthy findings were found.

Complementary examinations:
The haemogram showed a leukocytosis of 18,600 /mm3, with 15,070 granulocytes and 6% of keys, lymphocytes: 1,300/mm3, platelets: 70,000 /mm3, with the rest of the parameters in the normal range. Coagulation: PT 13.3 sec, PTTA normal, fibrinogen 1,161 mg/dL and biochemistry: glycaemia 223 mg/dL, creatinine 1.2 mg/dL, Na 130 mEq/L, Ca 8.2 mg/ml, BT 3.7mg/dL, BD 2.6mg/dL, GOT 125 U/L, GPT 160 U/L, amylase, GGT, FA and LDH normal. CRP 17.9 mg/L.
Urinalysis showed positive nitrites and sediment showed pyuria and intense bacteriuria. 
Chest and abdominal X-ray and electrocardiogram showed no findings of interest. Although the presumptive diagnosis in the ED in view of the data described above was "sepsis of probable urinary origin", given the laboratory findings of elevated bilirubin with discrete cytolysis and the history of laparoscopic cholecystectomy a month earlier, an abdominal ultrasound was requested prior to admission, which the radiologist completed with an abdominal CT scan with contrast, showing numerous confluent, poorly demarcated hypodense lesions measuring 85x80x75 mm overall, affecting a large part of the left hepatic lobe (LHI) and a small adjacent portion of the right hepatic lobe (LHD).
Similarly, very probable millimetric lithiasis was observed in the distal common bile duct with a normal bile duct calibre. The radiological conclusion was that in the clinical context of the patient, the best diagnostic possibility was an acute pyogenic cholangitis initiating a liver abscess (not yet organised) in the LHD.
In view of these findings, the patient was admitted, blood cultures were requested, empirical antibiotic therapy was started with Piperacillin/ tazobactam 4/0.5 every 6h and a contrast ultrasound and a cholangio-MRI were ordered to complete the imaging study. Twenty-four hours after admission, the ultrasound with contrast showed a heterogeneous area of about 90x80 mm in diameter in the LHI, highly suggestive of multiple liver abscesses, as well as septated cysts in the LHD.
Cholangio-MRI was performed 48 hours after admission and was reported as probable biliary mud in common hepatic and probable intrahepatic abscess in LHI, without being able to rule out cholangiocarcinoma. Given the discrepancies between the different imaging techniques, it was decided to request an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). On the 4th day of admission, as daily fever peaks of 39-40 degrees persisted, antibiotic therapy was changed to Imipenem/ cilastacin 500mg/6h iv, still empirically, as no growth was obtained in serial blood cultures.
ERCP ruled out bile duct obstruction (sphincterotomy and cleaning of the duct without removal of material), leading to a diagnosis of "multiple pyogenic liver abscesses".

Differential diagnosis
Regarding the pathogenesis of abscesses, they usually develop after peritonitis (via portal circulation), after biliary infection (direct route), via haematogenous dissemination due to systemic infection or through surgical or penetrating wounds. Knowing the pathogenesis is essential and points to the pathogen responsible in most cases. Regarding the microbiology, they are usually polymicrobial (anaerobic and enteric facultative), although a high variability of pathogens have been described as responsible for this pathology, which justifies the search for a microbiological diagnosis in almost all cases. Potential pathogens included in the differential diagnosis of liver abscesses in our case were:
1. The Streptococcus milleri or S. anginosus group (including S. constellatus and S. intermedius) is an important cause of liver abscess. When they are involved, it should prompt a search for concurrent metastatic infections elsewhere.
2. S. aureus, S. pyogenes and other Gram-positive cocci are pathogens to consider in specific circumstances, such as in patients undergoing transarterial embolisation for hepatocellular carcinoma.
3. Candida spp have also been implicated in pyogenic liver abscess and account for up to 22 percent of liver abscesses in published series. Hepatosplenic candidiasis may occur in patients who have received chemotherapy and show recovery in neutrophil count after an episode of neutropenia.
Klebsiella pneumoniae is an important emerging pathogen. Mostly implicated in Asia and South Africa.
5. Tuberculous liver abscesses are rare, but should be considered when blood cultures are negative.
6. Listeria monocytogenes liver infections are rare. Patients affected by this condition are usually immunocompromised and most cases present as meningitis or primary bacteraemia.
7. Burkholderia pseudomallei (the agent of Melioidosis) should be considered in patients from endemic areas (South East Asia and Northern Australia).
8. And amoebiasis should be considered as a cause of primary liver abscess, especially in patients from endemic areas or who have travelled to an endemic area within the last six months. 

Evolution
On the 7th day of admission, as fever peaked at 39-40o, despite a change in empirical antibiotic therapy (negative serial blood cultures), a left hepatectomy was performed due to the existence of multiple abscesses, with abscesses persisting in the right hepatic lobe. Twenty-four hours after surgery, the patient was afebrile for the first time since his arrival at the hospital and acute phase reactants started to progressively decrease. In the intraoperative tissue sample, a hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae serotype K1 (magA+, rmpA+) was isolated, with an antibiogram sensitive to both previously prescribed treatments (both Piperacillin/tazobactam and Imipenem/cilastacin), responsible for a pathology known as "Klebsiella pneumoniae invasive liver abscess syndrome" (for which treatment with Imipenem/cilastacin was maintained for 4 weeks).

Final diagnosis
"Invasive liver abscess syndrome due to hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae K1 magA+, rmpA+".
