We describe the case of a 66-year-old woman with arterial hypertension, dyslipidaemia and trigeminal neuralgia who came to the emergency department with sudden, non-painful loss of vision in the left eye that had developed over several days. Ophthalmological examination revealed a hyperemic papilla in the left eye fundus, more evident in the nasal area, with amputation of the upper vessels and peripapillary oedema; isochoric pupils; relative afferent pupillary defect (ARPD); and a central and superior altitudinal campimetric defect in the visual field examination by confrontation. Visual acuity (VA) in the right eye was 1 and in the left eye less than 20/400. The right eye did not show any alterations. C-reactive protein (CRP) and activated thromboplastin time (aPTT) were slightly elevated and the cranial CT scan was normal. She was admitted for systemic study with the diagnosis of suspected optic neuritis of the left eye, probably non-arteritic anterior ischaemic. The patient had residual erythematous lesions on the abdomen of infectious or toxic origin. She also suffered from asthenia, mandibular claudication and generalised muscle pain and had no fever. On examination, a venereal disease was discovered in the spouse 2 years ago (genital ulcerated lesion that resolved with treatment). Neurological involvement manifested as isochoric pupils and left DPAR. Colour vision was preserved. There was no ocular pain with globe movements or on palpation.

Visual evoked potentials showed asymmetry of amplitude and latency at the expense of the left eye compatible with left optic neuropathy. MRI was normal. Echo-Doppler ultrasound of the supra-aortic trunks showed minimal bilateral atherosclerotic changes with small plaques in the carotid bulb with no signs of significant stenosis.

Differential diagnosis
The patient's clinical manifestations and examination showed a left anterior optic neuropathy of possible non-arteritic ischaemic origin that had to be confirmed with further complementary tests. The involvement of the optic nerve with the appearance of the generalised exanthema led us to consider a toxic-infectious disorder, specifically secondary syphilis given her partner's history of possible chancroid two years ago. Another entity within the differential diagnosis was giant cell arteritis as she presented with frequent headaches and mandibular claudication. Antiphospholipid syndrome should also be in mind because of the possibility of optic nerve involvement due to a thromboembolic phenomenon.

Evolution
Regarding laboratory tests, there were positive results in serology for lues (positive Treponema pallidum IgG + IgM (QL) antibodies, positive FTA-Abs-Ig, RPR 1/16), and in autoimmunity anticardiolipin antibodies. The rest, including haemogram, biochemistry, ESR, autoimmunity study, vitamin B12 levels, thyroid function, angiotensin converting enzyme levels, serology (Brucella, HBV, HCV, HIV) within normality with negative Mantoux. Neurological disorders were ruled out by lumbar puncture and CSF analysis with negative FTA-Abs total Ig serology. Based on the above, it was concluded that the patient had papillitis, compatible with secondary syphilis. Therefore, she received 4,000,000 IU of intravenous penicillin G sodium every 4 hours for 14 days with partial resolution of the visual symptoms and complete disappearance of the dermatological symptoms, with subsequent development of secondary papillary and macular atrophy and micropsia. Residual VA in the left eye was 20/60. RPR has decreased, total FTA-Abs Ig and anticardiolipin antibodies were negative.

Final diagnosis
Non-arteritic anterior ischaemic optic neuritis caused by secondary syphilis.
