A 23-year-old male was initially referred by Urology for finding very low testosterone levels with low gonadotrophins; he had consulted a year ago for difficulty in maintaining an erection. He reported ejaculation with low volume and fluid. He maintains erections although with decreased libido. No anosmia.
Normal cognitive and physical development. Onset of pubertal development around 12 years of age with puberty. No eunuchoid habitus, bilateral 12 mL testicles. Little facial hair (his father does have a beard). His mother says she thought it was due to the third degree burn he had as a newborn.
He does not report drug or anabolic use. No cleft palate type malformations. No syndromic appearance or clinical impression of systemic inflammatory disease or chronic disease.
Relevant family history: her mother suffers from primary hypothyroidism, a single parent sister, a cousin with coeliac disease and another cousin on her mother's side with neonatal hyperammonaemia diagnosed in neonatal screening (she is currently 13 years old and is a healthy child).
A complete hormonal study was requested where the analytical result of secondary hypogonadism was again observed but no other hormonal alterations were observed; haemochromatosis was ruled out in the analytical study. Magnetic resonance imaging of the pituitary gland was requested and no alterations were observed.
Given that the complete study had been carried out, a diagnosis of normosmic Kallman syndrome was suggested, and genetic study of the GNRHR, KISS1R or KISS1 genes was requested, which is currently in progress.
Testosterone cypionate was initially prescribed intramuscularly every 21 days and the patient reported significant improvement in vitality, libido and ejaculation volume. The use of gonadotrophin analogues will be considered if the patient has a gestational desire.
Although the case may initially appear to be an acquired secondary hypogonadism given the late age of onset, there is apparently no known aetiological trigger for it. A review of the literature suggests that Kallman's syndrome may manifest late, although it is not common.
