We present the case of a 44-year-old patient with a history of psoriatic arthritis, on treatment with prednisone 5mg per day, oral methotrexate 25mg per week and colchicine, who came to the emergency department for clinical symptoms of 2 weeks' evolution, consisting of postprandial epigastralgia, non-thermometric dysthermic sensation, asthenia and progressively jaundice and choluria.
In the ED, fever up to 38.5oC was observed, preceded by shivering. Examination revealed general malaise, mucocutaneous-conjunctival jaundice, soft abdomen, pain in the right hypochondrium, murphy dubiously positive, with some erythematous-squamous lesions of psoriatic appearance on the abdomen.
Laboratory tests on admission showed Hb 11.3g/dl, 97000 platelets/mm3, without alteration of the white series; slightly altered coagulation (INR 1.2, PT 14.7s), mild deterioration of renal function (creatinine 1.29mg/dl, starting from 0.8mg/dl), bilirubin 1.77mg/dl, elevated GOT/GPT/alkaline phosphatase (200/114/104U/l) and CRP 273mg/l. Abdominal ultrasound showed only 16cm of splenomegaly. Abdominal CT scan showed inflammation of the fat adjacent to the pancreaticoduodenal sulcus, with no other findings or adenopathies.
Initially, high-spectrum treatment was administered, suspecting intra-abdominal infection, with piperaziline / tazobactam, doxycycline and withdrawal of immunosuppressants. Progressive worsening was found, with elevated transaminases and bilirubin (up to 5mg/dl), as well as a fall in haemoglobin (up to 8.5g/dl).
(up to 8.5g/dl), accompanied by leukopenia (2940 leukocytes) and plateletopenia (87000/mm3).
Blood and urine cultures were negative, as were multiple viral serologies. Finally, after obtaining a very positive serology for Leishmania, a bone marrow study was requested for definitive diagnosis. The biopsy found no Leishmania amastigotes, but the polymerase chain reaction was positive for the parasite.
Treatment with amphotericin B (200mg iv) was started, but after two doses, this treatment had to be discontinued due to episodes of pelvic and lumbar pain, psychomotor agitation and nervousness, accompanied by involuntary movements of the lower limbs. She subsequently started treatment with meglumine antimoniate (Glucantime) 3.75mg intramuscularly for 21 days, with rapid improvement in symptoms. One month after treatment, a negative PCR for leishmaniasis was observed.
