This is a 75-year-old female patient with a history of AHT, DM2, DLP, mild cognitive impairment with a vascular profile, appendectomy, hysterectomy and double adnexectomy. She is being treated with Lorazepam, HTZ, valsartan, amlodipine, linagliptin, metformin and sertraline.
She was referred to the emergency department for presenting agitation and intermittent and fluctuating behavioural alterations (hiding objects, anal incontinence...) of seven days' evolution. She reported pain in the right hypochondrium with the same chronology, accompanied by nausea and vomiting. No fever measured at home, but she did have a feeling of dystrophy. No other associated symptoms were reported.
A fever of 39oC was noted in the emergency department. Physical examination revealed Hypotension 80/42, HR 110lpm, Sat 96% with contribution at 2lpm. Poor general condition, ACP tachycardia with mvc, crackles in the lung bases, painful abdomen on palpation in the HCD region.
Analysis: leukocytosis 26500, with neutrophilia, platelets 110000, prothrombin activity 44%, fibrinogen 9.15, creatinine 1.54, urea 97, CRP 275, PCT 5.7. Given the data of coagulopathy and thrombopenia, increased acute phase reactants, as well as the clinical manifestations, an abdominal CT scan was requested.
The CT scan showed an image suggestive of liver abscess in segment 4 lower segment caused by a foreign body, probably a fishbone, in relation to the antro-bulbar region outside the gastric wall. There was no pneumoperitoneum or peritoneal free fluid.
The case was discussed with the general surgeon who rejected surgical intervention. The patient was admitted to the ICU and percutaneous drainage of the liver abscess was performed by interventional radiology.
Good clinical evolution with antibiotic treatment with coverage for Gram +, Gram - and fungi. Blood cultures and abscess culture isolated Streptococus anginosus. Antibiotic treatment was de-escalated according to antibiogram with good clinical and analytical evolution of the patient. Given the patient's stability, it was decided to discharge her to the Internal Medicine ward and continue treatment.
