Scope of the case
We present a case of herpes zoster with involvement of the two branches of the facial nerve that evolves in a torpid manner. It is diagnosed and treated by Primary Care, Neurology, Otorhinolaryngology, Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation. Images of the case are attached, with the patient's consent.

Reason for consultation
Deviation of the mouth, left hypoacusis and sensation of corkiness of the left hemiface.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests)
Anamnesis: 71-year-old man who attended a primary care clinic for vesicular-crusted lesions on the left hemiface (from the chin to the external auditory canal) of five days' evolution, associated with deviation of the corner of the mouth to the right, a sensation of corkiness of the left hemiface, left hypoacusis, alteration of taste sensitivity and difficulty in closing the left eye of 48 hours' evolution. He started treatment with Valacyclovir 1 gram every 8 hours as prescribed in the emergency department. No fever or other systemic symptoms. On consultation, clinical diagnosis of left peripheral facial paralysis due to herpes zoster virus.

Personal history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, obesity, psoriasis and ischaemic heart disease with non-revascularised angina. No known adverse drug reactions. She had never had herpetic lesions before.
His usual treatment was simvastatin 40mg, nevibolol 5mg, acetylsalicylic acid 100mg, metformin 850mg, tamsulosin 400mcg, allopurinol 100mg, omeprazole 20mg and calcipotriol 50mcg/betamethasone 500mcg skin foam.

In consultation, he was prescribed Deflazacort 30mg every 24 hours with a descending pattern, eye patches, artificial tears.

After the consultation, the patient decided to go to the neurology department of a private hospital after 3 days with no significant improvement in the paralysis and the onset of postherpetic neuralgia. After successive consultations at a private hospital, a brain MRI scan without contrast and a neurophysiological study of the facial nerve, clinical judgement concordant with that previously established: Ransay-Hunt syndrome.



Examination: good general condition, conscious, oriented and cooperative. Well hydrated and perfused. Normal colour. Eupneic at rest. No signs of meningismus. Cortical functions preserved. Coherent language. No aphasia. Pupils isochoric and normoreactive. Preserved extrinsic ocular mobility. No campimetric alterations by confrontation. Deviation of the corner of the mouth, mild dysarthria, difficulty in closing the left eyelids, epiphora, diminished sensitivity in the left hemiface. Erythematous, crusted plaques extending from the midline of the labial region and chin to the left external auditory canal.

Complementary tests
** Brain MRI without contrast: signs of cerebral ageing with cortico-subcortical atrophy and images compatible with small vessel ischaemic leukoencephalopathy, possibly secondary to atherosclerosis.
** Neurophysiological study of the facial nerve: study compatible with advanced neuropathy of the left facial nerve with loss of axonal volume and signs of degeneration.
** Laboratory tests: no relevant findings.

Family and community approach
71-year-old man, independent for all ABVD. With good family support. With private health resources. Retired and in full family contraction phase, mature family.

Action plan
In successive consultations, the patient's postherpetic neuralgia partially improved, allowing the analgesic treatment prescribed (paracetamol, metamizole, lidocaine patches, chloracepatodipotassium, tegretol 200 mg every 8 hours and amitriptyline 25 mg every 24 hours) to be reduced. This is not the case with peripheral facial paralysis. The patient provides reports of the therapy carried out in a private hospital: physiotherapy and rehabilitation, acupuncture and facial nerve stimulation. Finally, the possibility of surgical treatment is proposed, which he rejects.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Ramsay-Hunt syndrome, idiopathic or Bell's palsy, paralysis after otic surgery, acute otitis, chronic otitis (cholesteatoma, osteitis), acoustic neurinoma (more rare, with progressive paralysis), involvement of the geniculate ganglion in the context of infection.

Evolution
The patient started with a clinical diagnosis of facial herpes zoster vs. dermatological lesions. Over the days, the process had a torpid evolution, associating hypoacusis and paralysis, requiring assessment by different specialities. Severe refractory Ramsay-Hunt syndrome was confirmed.
The patient currently suffers from different post-herpetic sequelae such as peripheral facial paralysis, reduced taste sensitivity and hypoacusis in the left ear, which have improved slightly after multiple treatments.

