Reason for consultation
Skin rash on legs and arms of three days' evolution in a patient who four days ago had taken ciprofloxacin 500 mg orally, single dose, as prophylaxis for contact with meningococcus.

Individual approach
Male, 27 years old. Allergic to penicillin. Personal and family history not relevant.
Anamnesis: he came to the primary care clinic stating that four days ago, while on duty at the hospital where he worked, he had helped to perform a lumbar puncture on a patient suspected of having bacterial meningitis. Subsequently, when the diagnosis was confirmed, all healthcare staff in contact with the patient had to take ciprofloxacin 500 mg single dose orally as a prophylactic measure. Less than 24 hours later, small, discreetly pruritic pink skin lesions began to appear on the trunk, arms and legs, evolving to purplish and increasing in size, even coalescing to form small plaques, especially on the front of the legs. Currently there is no pruritus or fever. She denies any previous illness or risky sexual behaviour.
Physical examination revealed a good general state of health. There were circular "bull's-eye" erythematous violaceous lesions, some with central blistering, symmetrical, predominantly acral. No alteration of mucous membranes or lips.

Complementary tests: CBC with leukocytosis (15390 leukocytes) and neutrophilia (13560 neutrophils, 88%), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) 33 mm. Biochemistry: glucose 120 mg/dl, C-reactive protein (CRP) 24.4 mg/l, rest normal. Coagulation normal, except for fibrinogen 6.0 g/l. Urine normal.

Family and community approach
Male, 27 years old, Spanish nationality. Single but with a stable partner (stage 1 according to McGoldrick's family cycle), no children; he lives outside the family nucleus for work reasons. Medium-high cultural level, profession: nurse.

Clinical judgement
Erythema multiforme or polymorphous minor. Differential diagnosis with other blistering diseases: pemphigus vulgaris, bullous pemphigoid, dermatitis herpetiformis, herpetic primoinfection, lupus, vasculitis, etc.

Action plan and evolution
Referral to Dermatology. Primary care prescribes prednisone 30 mg on a descending scale for 18 days. The patient came to Dermatology quite improved, with only a few residual brownish lesions on the legs. Epithelialising lotion was prescribed. When he returned to Primary Care for a check-up, the lesions had completely disappeared.
