Anamnesis
A 19-year-old male from Morocco came to our dermatology emergency department due to asymptomatic generalised skin lesions of 2 months' evolution that appeared coinciding with a recent trip to his country. The anamnesis revealed no fever or other symptoms. He had no personal history of interest and was not taking any regular treatment. He was single, lived with three cats at home, apparently healthy, and denied having any other affected family members. He said that he had applied an antifungal cream without improvement. Six months ago, he had been diagnosed with Trychophyton rubrum on the nail of the first finger of the right hand and had been treated with an oral and topical antifungal for one month with poor response.

Physical examination
On dermatological examination he presented nummular plaques of variable size, erythematous, well-defined, active, raised, scaly, erythematous borders with central clearing located on the right frontal region, right cervical region, abdomen and fingers of the right hand. On the first finger of the right hand there was onychodystrophy and yellowing of the nail plate and distal onycholysis.


Additional examinations
It was decided to collect a sample of the scales of the abdominal lesion with carpet for fungal culture.

Diagnosis
Given the clinical and microbiological findings, a diagnosis of tinea corporis secondary to onychomycosis of the nail of the first finger of the right hand was made. The culture at one month was positive for Trichophyton rubrum.

Treatment
Treatment was started with oral Terbinafine 250 mg every 24 hours for a minimum of 3 months for nail and body involvement and topical Miconazole 2 times a day for 4 weeks for body lesions.

Evolution
Laboratory tests with liver profile were requested 4 weeks after starting treatment. After 6 weeks, the patient visited the dermatology department for a check-up and the skin lesions had disappeared and the affected nail plate had grown healthy. Laboratory results showed no findings of interest. She showed no new recurrences during follow-up.
