A 14-year-old Pakistani male presented with fever of 39oC, odynophagia and dry cough for three weeks, unresponsive to empirical antibiotic treatment (amoxicillin-clavulanic acid) and antipyretics. AP: He lived in Pakistan until 4 months prior to his admission. Ta: 38.7oC. BP: 90/34. 130 bpm. Sat O2 99%. Normal colour, no skin lesions. No meningeal signs. AC: rhythmic tones, no murmurs or friction rubs. AP: good ventilation. Abdomen without tender points, palpation of non-painful hepatosplenomegaly. ENT: no findings. Mobile laterocervical adenopathies of diameter < 1 cm. Complementary tests:
Haemogram 7,100 leu (70%N), Hb 10.8 HTC 30%, Platelets 98,000, CRP 40. Biochemistry: sodium 131, AST and ALT normal; Monosticon negative, sdo urine: normal and chest X-ray showed no pathological findings. Abdominal ultrasound: liver moderately enlarged overall, with normal and homogeneous echogenic parenchyma without focal lesions. Portal vein of normal calibre. Marked splenomegaly of approximately 15.5 cm maximum diameter.
 Differential diagnosis:
1) Traveler's fever without focus.
2) Fever without focus with respiratory symptoms.
 Admission diagnosis: febrile syndrome without focus. Complementary studies: urine culture, blood culture, stool culture and stool parasites, chest and abdominal X-ray, ECG and Mantoux were negative. Neck ultrasound: lymph node and/or small lymphadenopathies on both sides of the neck in the upper portion of both carotid and submaxillary areas, non-specific, probably chronic inflammatory. TTE: No signs of endocarditis. Serology of different microorganisms negative. Gross gout: Direct vision: Parasitized red blood cells per 100: 0.33%. Plasmodium PCR: Plasmodium vivax positive. Evolution:
In the first 72 hours of admission, a control haemogram was carried out which detected an increase in the pancytopenia already present: Hb 8 dl/ml, 3,600 leu, 85,000 PLQ. He was diagnosed by the microbiology service as infected by Plamodium vivax, which was confirmed by the reference hospital. Treatment was started with IV quinine and proguanil-atovacuone OV in the ICU. After receiving treatment, clinical and analytical improvement was observed, with a negative parasitaemia index, and the patient was discharged from hospital and followed up by the Internal Medicine Department and the Tropical Medicine Unit of the referral hospital. Final diagnosis:
Uncomplicated malaria. Plasmodium vivax infection.
