Anamnesis
45-year-old Caucasian woman, suffering from severe rheumatoid arthritis, seropositive, very erosive and limiting, on treatment with abatacept, ciclosporin and methylprednisolone and also associated with chronic respiratory insufficiency due to severe interstitial pneumopathy, already in the phase of pulmonary fibrosis and requiring maintained home oxygen therapy, admitted for acute respiratory insufficiency due to pneumonia with no identified micro-organism. She was receiving empirical antibiotic treatment with meropenem and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, despite which she was progressing poorly.

Physical examination
On the dorsal aspect of the right forearm there were 5 erythematous, erythematous nodules of between 1 and 3 cm in size, with an elastic, slightly painful consistency, which had appeared 2 months previously and were distributed in a sporotrichoid pattern, following a lymphatic pathway and culminating in 2 painful, elastic epitrochlear lymphadenopathies. The affected area had been manipulated by repeated venipunctures for drug infusion in recent months. These nodules had not been altered by antibiotic treatment.

Complementary examinations
A blood test showed a chronic normocytic and normochromic anaemia of 98 g/L, creatinine of 3.27 mg/dL, with the rest of the ionogram, liver biochemistry and renal biochemistry correct. A chest X-ray showed an intense deformity of the rib cage and parenchyma, impossible to assess due to the intense interstitial pneumopathy already present in the patient and which did not allow any changes to be observed with respect to previous examinations.
Pathological examination of one of the skin nodules revealed a mixed infiltrate throughout the thickness of the dermis, with the presence of poorly formed suppurative granulomas and multiple vacuoles or pseudocysts in which countless bacilliform microorganisms, 5 microns in size and arranged in rows on Kinyoun, PAS diastase and Gomori stains, stood out. Ziehl-Neelsen staining of skin biopsy material showed acid-fast bacilli.
Both bacterial cultures and cultures on media suitable for mycobacterial growth were negative. A PCR, obtained from a part of the skin biopsy of the nodule, was positive for Mycobacterium chelonae.

Diagnosis
The diagnosis was cutaneous, locally disseminated infection with M. chelonae lymphangitis. Pulmonary involvement could not be ruled out because of the inability to obtain samples due to the inability to expectorate and the impossibility of obtaining samples by invasive methods given the patient's severe condition.

Treatment
Clarithromycin 500 mg every 12 hours orally was added to the antibiotic treatment (at that time meropenem, rifabutin and ethambutol), which led to a practical resolution of the nodules in only 14 days. Despite this, the patient died due to worsening respiratory symptoms 23 days after the addition of clarithromycin.
