This is a 63-year-old mestizo man from Medellín, resident of Bogotá, who had recently travelled to the United States. He had a history of epilepsy with adequately treated absence seizures; he did not smoke and his alcohol consumption was occasional.

He consulted due to a clinical picture of 15 days of evolution with intense abdominal pain "difficult to describe" (more acute in the mesogastric and epigastric regions), interrupted sleep, hyporexia and decreased frequency and quantity of bowel movements during the previous seven days. The patient associated the onset of symptoms with the ingestion of tap water at home. He had consulted the emergency department four times in the previous week for the same reason.

On admission, the patient was in good general condition, hydrated, with blood pressure 123/74 mm Hg, heart rate 75 beats per minute, respiratory rate 16 per minute, temperature 37 o C, normal pharynx, unaltered neck, normal cardiopulmonary status on auscultation, reduced peristaltic sounds, pain on palpation throughout the colicky frame, no signs of peritoneal irritation, while all other aspects were within normal limits.

The patient was hospitalised and underwent paraclinical evaluations with the following results: leucocytes: 8,120 per mm3 , neutrophils: 59.4 %, lymphocytes: 16.0 %, eosinophils: 18.6 %, haemoglobin: 17.4 g/dl, haematocrit: 48.4 % and platelets: 275,000 per μl; the urinalysis was normal and the results of the other relevant paraclinical examinations were within normal limits for age. Plain radiography, ultrasonography, abdominal magnetic resonance imaging and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography showed no abnormalities. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a hiatal hernia with Schatzki's ring, and congestive and oedematous antral mucosa with some erosions. Biopsy revealed chronic active gastritis, while lower GI endoscopy revealed no abnormalities.

During hospitalisation, the patient presented several panic attacks, agitation and anxiety as well as exacerbation of abdominal pain, requiring psychiatric medical and pharmacological management. On the sixth day of hospitalisation, a painful, erythematous area measuring 2 x 2 cm appeared on the right abdominal flank, which evolved in a serpentine migratory pattern and progressed across the midline and returned to describe an elongated "X"-like pattern. A skin biopsy was taken from the site where the lesion started and histopathology showed dermoepidermal atrophy and large numbers of perivascular and interstitial eosinophils. One week after the onset of the lesion, a careful manual examination was performed and, on patching the lesion, a raised area was found on the right flank from which an approximately 8 mm long larva was removed using mineral oil and a tongue depressor.

Examination of the larva under the light microscope showed a worm consisting of a cephalic bulb and a body; around the bulb the characteristic four rows of hooks were identified, as well as a long oesophagus encircled by cervical sacs that joined the intestine, which appeared lined by simple cylindrical and multi-nucleated epithelium with haematoxylin and eosin staining. This characteristic allowed identification of the specimen as belonging to the genus Florida in the United States, where the patient consumed food prepared with fish and shellfish; although it is clear that the geographical area described is not endemic for this condition, it is known that more than 90 % of the fish and shellfish sold there are imported from countries such as China, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Ecuador, Peru and Mexico, nations recognised as endemic for gnathostomiasis.

Taxonomic identification is based on certain morphological characteristics of the larva, including body shape, the number of rows of hooks at the cephalic end and of hooks in each row, the extent of the body covered by spines, and the number of nuclei in the intestinal cells, which vary between species. The rows of hooks allow the larva to break through host tissues and produce mechanical tissue damage and symptoms. Species identification is useful from an epidemiological point of view, as treatment is the same for all species.

Clinical features can be divided into immediate post-infection symptoms and cutaneous or visceral symptoms, depending on the case. Within 24-48 hours after ingestion of the parasite, the individual may present with malaise, fever, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and abdominal pain, which may be diffuse, epigastric or localised in the right upper quadrant.

Gnathostoma and G. spinigerum as the most likely species, thus confirming the diagnosis of cutaneous gnathostomiasis. The patient was treated with 200 mg albendazole daily for 18 days and progressed satisfactorily.
