Anamnesis
46-year-old woman, with no toxic habits, with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus treated with metformin and nasal infiltrating basal cell carcinoma treated surgically on multiple occasions. He consulted the emergency department due to the appearance of generalised, very pruritic skin lesions of one week's evolution. Oral corticosteroids and oral antibiotics were prescribed without improvement, and the patient was referred to the dermatology department.

Physical examination
There was a rash of erythematous papules, some with central vesicles, and tense blisters on an erythematous base on the trunk and extremities. There were several erythematous, crusted lesions in a linear configuration and others in clusters on the right scapular area, right arm and forearm, and on the 5th finger of the same hand there were tense blisters with serous content. Linear papules with central crusting on the abdomen, erythematous plaques on the knees and tense blisters on the dorsum of both feet. There was no evidence of mucosal involvement. The rest of the physical examination was normal with good general condition.

Complementary examinations
Due to the presence of tense blisters and the intensity of the pruritus, bullous pemphigoid was suspected, and given the linear distribution of the lesions on the right arm, herpetic infection was ruled out. A general blood test, a skin biopsy for histopathological study, direct immunofluorescence (DIF), indirect immunofluorescence of the blister fluid (IFA) and a Tzank test were performed.

- Blood test: The blood test showed no leukocytosis, a slight increase in acute phase reactants (CRP: 2.56 mg/dL, ESR: 38 mm/h), normal liver profile. Mild eosinophilia 1.0x109/L [N<0.5] and increased serum total IgE 519.00IU/L [N<100.00] were noted. IgG anti-BP180 antibodies were normal 2.00 U/mL [ N < 20.00].
- Skin biopsy: A punch skin biopsy was performed on one of the knee lesions. It showed a preserved epidermis and a perivascular inflammatory infiltrate composed of lymphocytes and eosinophils in the superficial and mid dermis.
- IFD: Presence of C3 and fibrinogen deposits in the wall of the small vessels of the superficial dermis.
- IFA: No IgA or IgG antibodies against the basement membrane were detected.
- Tzank test: The Tzank test showed a haemorrhagic smear with an inflammatory component, few squamous cells and no cytopathic alterations of viral infection.

Diagnosis
The results of blood tests, skin biopsy and cytology ruled out bullous pemphigoid and herpetic infection. The linear distribution of some of the lesions raised suspicion of a possible reaction to stings. Two months later, the patient found hundreds of bedbugs in her mattress and a diagnosis of bedbug dermatosis was made.

Treatment
Until her diagnosis, she was treated with oral corticosteroids in descending doses, topical corticosteroids and antihistamines.

Evolution
After the causative agent was found and eliminated, the lesions resolved completely.
