Anamnesis
A 37-year-old male patient consulted the Emergency Department for a headache of one month's duration. He reported that since adolescence he had suffered sporadic episodes of pulsating hemicranial headache with associated photophobia and phonophobia, for which he had never consulted the doctor. He was a smoker of about 20 cigarettes a day and had only one relevant personal history of surgery in childhood, following trauma to the right elbow. He reported a perianal abscess two months before the onset of the headache, which was treated satisfactorily with cloxacillin, without requiring drainage, and otitis media one month earlier, which resolved after seven days of treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid.

Approximately one month prior to her attendance at the emergency department, she began to suffer from a pulsating right hemicranial headache of several days' duration. The pain persisted throughout the day, being more intense in the afternoon, and was maintained during the night, although it allowed the patient to rest. During the first few days it was accompanied by a slight sensation of dizziness and pain on palpation of the paranasal sinuses. As this did not subside with the usual analgesia, the patient decided to consult his general practitioner, who diagnosed him with headache and sinusitis and prescribed analgesia with anti-inflammatory drugs and metamizole, as well as antibiotic treatment with ciprofloxacin. The clinical course included the possibility of evaluating a migraine study, which was ruled out as the patient showed initial improvement after treatment.

However, in just seven days the clinical picture continued to progress, with headache persisting with similar characteristics, but now accompanied by fever, diarrhoeal stools and nausea with vomiting. The pain worsened with Valsalva manoeuvres and was associated with photophobia and phonophobia. The patient then sought urgent care in primary care, where he was diagnosed with tension headache and gastroenteritis, and a normal laboratory test was requested. Despite correct analgesic and antiemetic treatment, the patient showed a clear deterioration, with prostration and a tendency to sleep throughout the day, and three days later his family decided to take him to the Emergency Department.

Physical examination
On arrival at the Emergency Department, the patient was attended on a stretcher as he presented significant pain. On first inspection, the degree of prostration and sensitivity to noise and light, as well as the impression of gravity that he conveyed, stood out. He was conscious and oriented in space and person, but not in time. He kept his eyes closed unless verbally stimulated, with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 13 (O3, V4, M6). The general physical examination was normal, with only slight discomfort on abdominal palpation. He was afebrile and normal colour. The neurological examination revealed pain on palpation of the paranasal sinuses. Pupils were isochoric and normoreactive. There were no alterations in campimetry or cranial nerves. There was a decrease in strength 4/5 in the left extremities, as well as slight hyposthesia in the left extremities compared to the right. Reflexes were normal and the Romberg test was negative, with no gait alterations. She showed no dysmetria in the toe-nose test or in the heel-knee test. No meningismus was detected.

Complementary tests
- A basic blood count, biochemistry and coagulation were requested, showing a slight neutrophilia (81.6%) without leukocytosis, with no other parameters outside the normal range.
- Urinalysis, chest X-ray and electrocardiogram were normal.
- A cranial computed tomography (CT) scan with contrast showed an expansive right temporal intraaxial lesion 58 mm in diameter, rounded, with fine ring-shaped uptake and right hemispheric perilesional oedema with a 16 mm midline displacement, compatible with right temporal abscess. Cranial CT scan with contrast, showing right temporal abscess, with significant midline shift.

Diagnosis
Right brain abscess of otogenic origin.

Treatment
Treatment was started in the Emergency Department with dexamethasone every 6 h and antibiotherapy combined with ceftriaxone and vancomycin. The Neurosurgery Department was contacted urgently and performed urgent drainage of the abscess. The Otolaryngology Department performed tympanoplasty and radical mastoidectomy in the same surgical procedure.

Evolution
The patient had a good postoperative evolution, without complications, maintaining a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 15 at all times and without alterations in the neurological examination. The neuroimaging tests showed normal postoperative changes, without intracranial collections and with decreased midline displacement.

Microbiological examination of the material removed during surgery (pus and abscess capsule) revealed that the abscess had been produced by Streptococcus pneumoniae. The patient was admitted to the neurosurgery ward for 23 days, receiving antibiotic treatment. During the patient's admission, serology was performed, which revealed infection by hepatitis B virus and human immunodeficiency virus, both of which were unknown. On discharge he was treated with ceftriaxone for eight weeks.
