89-year-old male, AHT. AF, round atelectasis in the right lower lobe and subpleural micronodules, loculated right hydropneumothorax under follow-up by Pneumology. Left renal cyst Bosniak II. Mesenteric panniculitis, diverticulosis.
Admitted to Internal Medicine for hepatic abscess in segment 4, in CT scan monitored by Pneumology. Physical examination was normal except for known arrhythmia.
Drainage was performed with culture of samples and antibiotic treatment was started with Amoxicillin-Clavulanic acid, in the absence of biliary tract dilatation and without colostasis, the study was completed with colonoscopy and cytology, which were normal. A control CT scan was performed, in which no changes were seen in the liver lesion, so the study was extended with cholangio MRI showing distal cholelithiasis. An endoscopic ultrasound was performed, which showed cholelithiasis in the common bile duct with no evidence of dilatation or obstruction of the biliary tract and without any image compatible with neoplasia. Alpha fetoprotein negative, cultures with isolation of Clostridiodes Cadaveris and Metronidazole was added to the treatment. With an ultrasound examination showing an improvement in the abscess, drainage was removed and the patient was admitted to the Home Hospitalisation Unit to complete antibiotic treatment.
After two weeks of treatment, she presented a new clinical worsening with anorexia, deterioration of general condition and asthenia, and ultrasound findings led to readmission.
A new drainage and biopsy of the abscess was performed, given the characteristics of the patient and the literature review of the association described between Clostridiodes Cadaveris and neoplasia. The result was compatible with liver metastasis of squamous cell carcinoma, of unknown primary (although taking into account the lesion and pulmonary effusion that the patient presented, this could be the primary). This was discussed with the family and in agreement with them, and taking into account the patient's age and the scarce therapeutic possibilities, it was decided not to submit the patient to further complementary studies, which is why palliative care was contacted for outpatient follow-up.
