Anamnesis
A 55-year-old man with a history of hypertension treated with enalapril. He came to the Emergency Department for a clinical picture of 4 days of evolution characterised by febrile peaks of up to 38.5 °C associated with bilateral orchialgia, which did not respond to initial treatment with oral ciprofloxacin, prescribed by his general practitioner at the onset of the clinical picture.

Physical examination
On physical examination he was conscious and temporospatially oriented, with signs of mild dehydration, tachycardic (126 bpm), blood pressure 143/91 mmHg and febrile (38 °C). In the genital region there was a 5 x 7 cm necrotic area at the base of the scrotum with slough and purulent discharge, associated with significant oedema and bilateral redness with proximal extension to the inguinal region and the ipsilateral iliac fossa, crepitant to the touch. The rest of the physical examination showed no pathological findings.

Complementary tests
- Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis of 22,600/mm3 with neutrophilia of 90.5% with CRP of 23.4 mg/l. Glucose 156 mg/dl, creatinine 0.65 mg/dl, urea 31.3 mg/dl. Urinary sediment showed glycosuria of three crosses.
- Testicular ultrasound showed thickening of the scrotal wall, as well as a heterogeneous hypoechoic image compatible with an abscess with multiple hyperechoic foci with posterior shadowing suggestive of subcutaneous gas, extending to the left inguinal region. Right teste with slight increase in size and vascularisation. Findings suggestive of Fournier's gangrene.

Diagnosis
Based on the clinical and complementary tests, the diagnosis of Fournier's gangrene was established.

Treatment
The patient was taken to the operating theatre for surgical lavage and emergency debridement, abundant scrotal purulent material was drained, devitalised tissues were resected, the periurethral and peritesticular space was dissected, respecting the bilateral testicular vagina, and both cords were also dissected. A transverse incision was made in the left iliac fossa at the level of the anterior superior iliac spine, where the subcutaneous cellular tissue was debrided, showing indemnity of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The necrotic scrotum was resected to viable margins. No involvement of noble structures such as testicles, urethra or corpora cavernosa was observed.
Combined antibiotic therapy, gentamicin, metronidazole and ceftriaxone, and a daily regimen of local dressings with hydrogen peroxide and potassium permanganate were started.
At 12 hours he was re-evaluated by surgical debridement, where resection of the non-viable scrotal skin was extended.
The gram of the material obtained in the operating room showed mixed flora with gram-positive cocci in chains and streptococcus-type pairs, gram-negative bacilli and gram-positive staphylococcus-type cocci. The culture showed a predominant multisensitive Streptococcus anginosus. There was no evidence of anaerobic growth in the usual culture media.

Evolution
The patient presented a satisfactory evolution, with resolution of the systemic inflammatory response, given by the absence of new febrile peaks and decrease in inflammatory parameters with a blood test on the third postoperative day of 7,100/mm3 leukocytes with 72% neutrophils and negative CRP. At 3 weeks of evolution, scrotal skin reconstruction was performed with a partial skin mesh graft obtained from the anterior region of the right thigh, which evolved adequately.
