A 76-year-old man with a history of type II diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and chronic renal failure. The patient came to the emergency department of our centre with general malaise, nausea, vomiting and episodes of profuse sweating without chest pain. Five days earlier he had been discharged from hospital after two stents had been placed for ischaemic heart disease. He was admitted with leukocytosis with left shift, acute renal failure, normochromic normocytic anaemia and a CRP of 112mg/L. The electrocardiogram showed complete right bundle branch block and second-degree atrioventricular block. During the first days of admission to the ICU he was afebrile, with rising leukocytosis without clear focus, and showing some episodes of temporospatial disorientation with psychomotor agitation. Treatment with piperacillin/tazobactam was started and a cranial CT scan was performed showing a small occipital subarachnoid haemorrhage. On the sixth day of admission, the patient presented fever over 38oC, with tachypnoea and increased respiratory work with severe metabolic acidosis, accompanied by a deterioration in the level of consciousness. A chest CT scan showed bilateral pleural effusion. Urine, bronchial aspirate and blood samples were collected for culture. The following day the microbiology laboratory reported that two blood cultures grew gram-positive cocci in clusters which were later identified as non-beta-lactamase-producing Staphylococcus lugdunensis. Following this result, antibiotic treatment was adjusted according to the antibiogram to cloxacillin and gentamicin. A transesophageal echocardiogram was performed, showing two vegetations on the atrial side of the mitral valve, one in the septal leaflet measuring 12 x 12 mm and the other in the posterior leaflet measuring 13 x 12 mm, indicating moderate mitral insufficiency. Surgery for valve replacement was considered, but the patient died before surgery could be performed. The patient was diagnosed with mitral endocarditis on native valve.
