A 41 year old female patient, born in the south of Ecuador, daughter of butcher parents, living in Spain since 1998, with no recent trips to her country of origin and no medical history. She attended the emergency department on several occasions over 10 months for recurrent episodes of cervicalgia, headache in the occipital region, fever up to 38.5oC, nausea and vomiting. The cervical pain was throbbing and intense, and was accentuated when standing up and bending down; she progressively noticed ramps in her legs and less strength in her hands when handling objects. Physical examination revealed pain on posterior cervical palpation, with no meningeal signs, although there was slight resistance to cervical flexion, minimal weakness distal to hand pressure, generalised hyperreflexia predominantly in the lower limbs and right clonus. Fundus examination was normal. An outpatient brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, which showed signal hyperintensity in the diffusion study, located in the left posterior parasagittal occipital region. Given the suspicion of cervical myelopathy with possible migraine status, it was decided to admit the patient for study. A number of complementary tests were performed, including a serology for Borrelia burgdorferii (IgG positive). The CMR was repeated, where the area of hyperintensity persisted, also including periventricular substance and dilatation of the ventricular system. The cervical vertebral study was normal. Computed Axial Tomography of the thorax, abdomen and pelvis was normal. Lumbar puncture was performed, obtaining normotensive CSF, clear, glucose 49mg/dL, protein 63.2mg/dL, leukocytes 69 cells/uL (PMN 15%, MN 85%), red blood cells 21 cells/uL, albumin 43.6 mg/dL; Ziehl, Gram and Cryptococcus Ag stain negative; cultures negative; CSF cytology showed mature lymphoid cells without atypia. The patient worsened and a new CMR was performed, showing signs of hydrocephalus and contrast uptake by the meninges. Given the clinical suspicion of chronic meningitis with progressive hydrocephalus and signs and symptoms of intracranial hypertension, neurosurgical intervention was decided: Despite this, clinical worsening persisted (refractory headache, nausea, vomiting, ataxia and nystagmus), so it was decided to re-intervene on suspicion of DVP dysfunction, placing an external ventricular shunt (EVS) for a week, with a new intervention to place a new DVP and remove the previous DVP. Anatomopathological results were obtained, showing no significant pathology. A new CMR was performed which showed an improvement, which was confirmed by a clinical improvement and a diagnosis of chronic meningitis due to possible neurosarcoidosis with secondary progressive hydrocephalus was made, and it was decided to start steroid treatment. In one of the physical examinations, right supraclavicular swelling and redness in the posterior cervical region were observed, which had not existed before: the CAT scan showed no alterations. A new lumbar puncture was performed, obtaining CSF with mild pleocytosis. Following these findings, it was concluded that there were no signs of infection but rather of recurrence due to a reduction in corticosteroid treatment, and it was recommended that the antibiotic be discontinued and the corticosteroids be increased. The diagnosis of sarcoidosis and other possible diagnoses were questioned, as the patient had normal angiotensin-converting enzyme and negative Quantiferon. Another CMR was performed, which showed contrast uptake in the pachygyria and leptomeninges of the posterior aspect of the bulbomedullary transition to the end of the second cervical vertebra together with the appearance of a liquid cyst at the level of C3, of the left pontocerebellar and retrocerebellar angles, and it was suggested that the cysts were postmeningitis arachnoid cysts. Cervical pain associated with vomiting persisted, so a new CMR was performed, showing a centred midline and the presence of two cystic lesions inside the left lateral ventricle, with the end of the catheter located in the third ventricle, and a cystic image persisted in the left pontocerebellar angle with a similar size, also showing an extension of the cystic lesion caudal and left posterolateral to the level of the C3 vertebra. Subsequently, he began to show behavioural changes and gait disturbance; he had a fall in the street with TBI, hand tremor, difficulty walking, more frequent vomiting, urinary incontinence, no fever. Hydrocephalus was again detected and it was decided to re-intervene due to DVP dysfunction. Subsequently, she presented multiple complications with persistent headache and gait instability. He suffered several episodes of DVP obstruction that required surgical reintervention. Physical examination revealed deterioration of the general condition, without neurological focality, broad base of support, oedematisation of the face and neck, cushingoid facies, tremor in both hands, despite the reduction of corticoids. We postulate the possibility of reactivation of her chronic meningitis after discontinuation of corticosteroid treatment. Finally, given the clinical manifestations and findings, a new brain biopsy was performed on suspicion of arreabsorptive hydrocephalus secondary to probable chronic meningitis-neurosarcoidosis. During surgery, multiple cysts were found to have emerged at the subarachnoid and infracerebellar levels. The pathological anatomy was reported as a piece of cystectomy in cisterna magna: scalloped cyst and fibrous wall of parasitic origin, although it cannot be confirmed due to the absence of the parasite, a cysticercosis is the most congruent. Multiple microbiological studies were carried out with the biopsy, being negative for tuberculosis, fungi, amoebae. Finally, the PCR for Taenia solium in the brain biopsy was positive, so it was decided to start treatment with praziquantel and albendazole, in view of the diagnostic confirmation of neurocysticercosis. Unfortunately, the patient continues with poor evolution and still has episodes of obstruction of the PVD, which have led to multiple complications related to prolonged hospitalisation. This case highlights the importance of this type of pathology and the relevance of highlighting the epidemiological background of patients, which we often forget and makes us direct the diagnostic process based on pathologies that we see in our area much more frequently.
