Anamnesis
84 year old woman with a personal history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus and osteoporosis, all of which were under pharmacological treatment. She came to the emergency department with fever of 48 hours' evolution, associated with urinary symptoms and skin lesions on the buttock and right leg of less than 12 hours' evolution. The relatives reported that for the last month and a half the patient had presented neuropathic pain in the same limb for which she had been receiving treatment with tramadol and oral lyrica and for which she had visited the emergency department on several occasions, having received treatment with intramuscular (IM) metamizole the previous week.

Physical examination
Stuporous patient with hypotension of 80/60, tachycardia of 150 bpm and fever of 37.7 oC. On the buttock, trochanteric region and external lateral aspect of the right thigh, plaque of extensive and diffuse pinkish erythema, not palpable and with unclear limits, with a decrease in local temperature with respect to the rest of the limb. On it there were several plaques, some smaller pearly white and others purplish, several centimetres in size; with a peripheral white halo of very clear geographical borders, not infiltrated and not palpable. There was a more intense erythematous area in the upper outer quadrant of the buttock, poorly demarcated, with a central, punctiform, violaceous spot.

Complementary examinations
A blood test was carried out which showed: - Acute renal failure (urea 180 mg/dL and creatine 2.30 mg/dL), CRP over 90 with procalcitonin 46.34 ng/mL.
- Urine pyuria with bacteriuria.
- In haemogram anaemia of 10.8 g/dL haemoglobin and platelets of 114,000 platelets/mL, as well as the presence of a leukocyte count within the normal range (8,400/mL) but absolute and relative neutrophilia (8,000 and 94.8%, respectively) with 84% of semen and 4% of white blood cells.
- Coagulation with derived fibrinogen of 917 mg/dL.
- A plain radiograph of the hip and pelvis showed an increase in volume of the right buttock and thigh compared to the contralateral side, as well as thickening and reticulation of the subcutaneous cellular tissue with a delimited area of clustered gas bubbles.
A skin sample was taken for microscopic examination showing acute and chronic ischaemic changes with epidermal atrophy, oedema and acute and chronic inflammation; as well as purpura and signs of vasculitis in the vascular structures of the subcutaneous cellular tissue.

Diagnosis
Septic shock in the context of necrotising fasciitis secondary to IM injection of metamizole.

Treatment
The patient was admitted for intravenous antibiotic treatment and fasciotomy and emergency surgical debridement was performed by the traumatology department.

Evolution
During surgery, a large amount of malodorous liquid material was drained, after which the patient showed initial clinical improvement with a good level of consciousness, normalisation of renal function and sepsis parameters. During the same period, microbiological culture samples were taken, which were positive for Escherichia coli, and targeted antimicrobial therapy was initiated.
Despite this initial improvement, during the following days the skin lesions continued to spread, with new necrotic plaques appearing and requiring up to four more surgical debridements. In all of them, samples were obtained for microbiological study and were repeatedly positive for multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii, only sensitive to tigecycline. Despite the therapeutic effort, the patient continued to worsen, ending in exitus 7 days after the last surgical drainage.

