This is a 43-year-old man from Senegal who came to the hospital emergency department with a thermometric fever of up to 39oC and abdominal pain of one week's evolution.

The patient's history was recorded with difficulty due to the language barrier. With no personal history of interest, he had been living in Europe for 13 years, between Spain and Italy. He had not recently returned to his country of origin. Married, no risky sexual habits. Works in the countryside, currently unemployed. Occasional drinker of a standard drinking unit (SBU). Active smoker of 1-2 cannabis cigarettes. He presented with bacteremic fever of up to 39o C in the last 48 hours, associated with abdominal pain, located in the epigastrium. For the last two weeks, he has had a barely productive cough, with dyspnoea on moderate to minimal exertion. He also refers constitutional symptoms of 2 months' evolution, with asthenia and a quantified weight loss of 10 kg. No other symptoms by organs or apparatus.

Physical examination revealed a feeling of illness, with significant cachexia and dry skin. He was hypotensive, but with preserved diuresis, saturation 97-98% at FiO2 0.21. Tachypnoea at 24 rpm, without tugging. Auscultation showed generalised hypophonesis, with rhythmic tones at 100 bpm. The abdominal examination highlights, non-painful hepatomegaly of 5 cm. Good capillary filling, pulses present and symmetrical.

Emergency biochemical tests showed preserved renal function, water and electrolyte abnormalities: hyponatraemia 116 mg/dL, hypokalaemia 2.5 mg/dL, hypocalcaemia (calcium corrected with total protein 4.3 mg/dL) 9.4 mg/dL, LDH 1330 U/L, BT 1.43 mg/dL, GPT 27 mg/dL. Elevated acute phase reactants (APR) CRP 160 mg/l. Pancytopenia with 3040 leukocytes/mm3 with 1830 PMN, haemoglobin 8.1 mg/dL, 57000 platelets/mm3. Coagulation preserved. The requested X-ray showed condensation in the LSD with air bronchogram, cavitation in the LI, with a nodular image and an alveolar interstitial pattern in the lingula. The abdominal X-ray showed displacement of the intestinal loops, and the electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 100 bpm with axis at 60o.

The patient was admitted with septic shock of respiratory origin, pancytopenia and hepatomegaly.

In view of the X-ray images and the epidemiological history, a sputum BAAR was requested, which turned out to be positive for mycobacteria.

The serologies requested for HIV, hepatotropic viruses, EBV, parvovirus, the rest of the microbiological and autoimmune studies were negative.

A more complete biochemistry was requested, with ferritin of 15150 ng/mL, iron 86 ug/dL, transferrin 86 mg/mL, transferrin saturation index 79.7%, vitamin B12 > 2000 pg/dL, triglycerides 133 mg/dL. A coagulation disorder was detected that was not present on admission; with prothrombin activity 68.45%, INR 1.33 and derived fibrinogen 145.4 mg/dL.

Differential diagnosis
In summary, this is a patient with active tuberculosis, with pancytopenia, hepatomegaly and hyperferritinaemia of 15150 mg/dL.

The pancytopenia makes it necessary to rule out a bone marrow disease or a peripheral process that explains the cellular consumption or destruction. Causes with peripheral involvement include hypersplenism, liver disease, certain viruses, autoimmune processes or consumption during sepsis. Central mechanisms include viral processes, leukaemias or myelodysplastic or myeloproliferative syndromes. Drug or alcohol consumption, history of liver disease, poor diet, haematological diseases or infections with EBV, CMV, parvovirus B19 or HIV should be ruled out.

Hepatomegaly can occur as a consequence of various pathologies, such as hepatitis secondary to an infectious process, ischaemia, toxins such as drugs or alcohol. It can be caused by accumulation of substances, as in haemochromatosis, or by infiltration of tumours, both benign and malignant. It may be the result of alterations in venous return, as in thrombosis of the suprahepatic veins or congestive heart failure. Alterations in the biliary tract, such as in primary biliary cirrhosis, may also cause enlargement of the liver.

Hyperferritinaemia can occur in a variety of conditions such as inflammation, sepsis, liver pathology, haemochromatosis or frequent blood transfusions. Although low ferritin levels correlate closely with iron deficiency, the same does not seem to be true when values are elevated. This is related to the role of ferritin as a pro-inflammatory mediator and acute phase reactant (PAR).

Markedly elevated levels are rare in clinical practice. They are highly suggestive of haemophagocytic syndrome (HPS), Still's disease or malignant antiphospholipid syndrome among others. In these syndromes, it is not only a mediator of inflammation, but also participates in the pathophysiology of the disease as an inflammatory cytokine. In summary, and based on the complementary tests, autoimmune causes and viral processes are ruled out as possible aetiology. The study should be extended with Coombs' test, reticulocytes or bone marrow aspirate to rule out a central cause of pancytopenia, although it could be partly explained by the septic condition. Imaging tests are needed to assess the status of the hepatomegaly and to rule out/confirm splenomegaly or a liver tumour which also justifies the patient's clinical signs of malnutrition and cachexia. Given the above, hyperferritinaemia could be secondary to a liver disease such as haemochromatosis or be in the context of septicaemia as an acute phase reactant, although the levels are excessively elevated, so hyperferritinaemic syndrome should not be forgotten.

Evolution
Treatment was started with rifampicin, isoniazid, ethambutol and pyrazinamide, the doses of which were adjusted to the patient's weight. Despite this, the patient developed respiratory, haemodynamic and haematological failure and required admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
The study was extended with haematological tests such as Coombs' test and haptoglobin, which were negative, ruling out an underlying haematological process. Bone marrow aspirate was not performed.
The analytical evolution was as follows: he developed a coagulopathy with a decrease in AP to 52%, APTT 25 s, DD 31, worsening of the cytopenias, requiring transfusions of platelets and red blood cells, although blood levels were subsequently brought under control. Ferritin levels were decreasing, reaching 2578 mg/dL. All blood and urine media cultures were negative. Serial smears remained persistently positive, with an antibiogram for rifampicin-sensitive M. tuberculosis. The bacillus was not isolated from any other specimen. The CRP was elevated on admission to the ICU and subsequently decreased. The patient had to be intubated due to muscle exhaustion and was severely maladapted to invasive ventilation. He developed a parcel pneumothorax, so a chest tube was placed, making ventilation even more difficult. A chest CT scan was requested to assess the extent of the lesion: "Moderate right anterior hydropneumothorax with well-placed drainage tube. Possible pleurobronchial fistula in LSD. Consolidation in LSD multicavitated with bronchial dilatation. Large 85 mm cavity in LSI, without hydroaerial levels or masses. Parenchyma of middle lobe, lingula and lower lobes with reticular interstitial involvement and areas of honeycombing. Alveolar infiltrates in LSI and patchy in LII. No mediastinal adenopathies of significant size. Abdominal and pelvic CT only showed homogeneous hepatomegaly".
Despite the support measures taken and the tuberculostatic treatment, there was no clinical improvement. Finally the patient died.

Final diagnosis
Respiratory sepsis due to pulmonary tuberculosis and secondary SHF.
