A 79-year-old man, ex-smoker since the age of 70 (total of 30 pack-years) consulted for fever of one month's evolution. His medical history includes allergy to penicillin, hypertension without vascular complications, chronic bronchitis without exacerbation and benign prostatic hyperplasia. Regular treatment with Plusvent accuhaler 50/500 mcg 1 inh every 12h, Amlodipine 5m every 24h, Doxazosin 4mg 1 comp every 24h. The clinical picture began on 09.07.13 when she consulted the reference hospital for right lumbosacral pain with exploratory manoeuvres suggestive of sacroiliitis, for which infiltration was performed, and the pain subsided. Reconsultation on 23.07.13 at the same centre for fever of 8 days' evolution with chills, accompanied by dysuria, sporadic vomiting of food content and some episodes of diarrhoea without pathological products. A haemogram was performed which showed no leukocytosis, urine sediment was negative, and the patient was assessed as enteroinvasive gastroenteritis and treatment was prescribed with ciprofloxacin 500 mg every 12h for 10 days. She consulted our centre on 12.08.13 due to persistent high fever of up to 39oC, daily and predominantly in the evening, accompanied by profuse sweating, which was occasionally accompanied by episodes of frank shivering every 24-48h accompanied by cough with scanty expectoration and resolution of the digestive symptoms. Epidemiological history included a trip to the province of Badajoz 7 days prior to consultation. Physical examination revealed a temperature of 38.1oC, minimal healed wound in the pretibial region of the right leg with no inflammatory signs, no stigmata of infectious endocarditis and no other relevant findings. Laboratory tests showed elevated acute phase reactants and normochromic normocytic anaemia with no evidence of haemolysis, which was suggested to be secondary to the underlying inflammatory process. Lumbar puncture showed clear CSF with lymphocytic pleocytosis, mild proteinuria and normal glucuroraemia. Serology for germs causing mononucleosis syndromes (HIV neg, Toxoplasma IgG+/IgM-, EBV IgG+/IgM-, CMV IgG+/IgM+), Borrelia burgdorferi IgM+/IgG positive, Rose Bengal, Quantiferon, Leptospira, Coxiella and Ricketsia negative. A thoracoabdominal CT ruled out intra-abdominal abscesses, organomegaly or pathological lymphadenopathies. Transthoracic echocardiogram ruled out the presence of vegetations. ANAs at a titre of 1/320. Suspicion of tick-borne endemic relapsing fever type borreliosis based on epidemiology, compatible clinical manifestations and positive IgM serology for Borrelia burgdorferi. Positive serology for CMV is oriented as possible reactivation of chronic latent infection due to relative immunosuppression in the context of subacute Borrelia infection. However, in the absence of compatible clinical manifestations and the existence of a more plausible alternative cause, antiviral treatment was not considered necessary. Finally, the presence of Borrelia hispanica was confirmed by PCR. The patient started treatment with doxycycline at a dose of 100mg/12h, with good tolerance (especially not clinically suggestive of Jarish-Herxheimer reaction) and was apyretic in less than 12 hours. He remained afebrile, with progressive improvement in general condition and analytical resolution.
