Anamnesis
We present the case of a 40-year-old man who consulted the urology outpatient department for pain in the left renal fossa. A smoker, with no other history of interest, the patient reported colicky pain without fever, of several weeks' evolution. It was not accompanied by frank haematuria or urinary symptoms.

Physical examination
Physical examination was unremarkable, with only bimanual palpation pain in the left renal fossa. No abdominal masses were observed.

Complementary tests
- Blood tests: renal function and haemogram were normal.
- Urine and urine sediment: urine pH was 6 and the urine sediment showed leukocyturia and microhaematuria without bacteriuria.
- Ultrasound of the urinary system: left renal pyelocaliceal ectasia and possible lithiasic image in the ipsilateral renal pelvis.
- Intravenous urography: pyelocaliceal dilatation with alteration of the morphology of the calyces and lithiasis in the lower pole of the left kidney. Ipsilateral ureter dilated up to the distal third, where there is sharp passage of contrast to the bladder, in relation to a stenotic process.

Diagnosis
Given the diagnostic suspicion of an upper urinary tract tumour in the face of a chronic inflammatory process, a computed tomography with contrast urinary excretion time (URO-CT) was performed, where left ureterohydronephrosis was observed in relation to a concentric parietal thickening along the left ureter, especially at the level of the renal pelvis and distal ureter, associated with tumouring at the left ureterovesical junction extending towards the bladder, with trabeculation of the periureteral fat and retroperitoneal adenopathies larger than 10 mm.
Given all the data from the imaging tests, the patient underwent exploration of the bladder under anaesthesia and no intravesical lesions were demonstrated, except for a protruding mass at the level of the left ureteral orifice, which was resected to obtain an anatomopathological sample. The result of the biopsy was a diagnosis of a chronic inflammatory process.
Given the persistence of diagnostic doubts, retrograde pyelography and ureteroscopy were performed with biopsies of suspicious areas, and a selective urine sample was obtained from the left urinary tract for cytology and culture.
Pathology showed the presence of an inflammatory reaction with formation of epithelioid granulomas without findings of a neoformative process. Urinary cytology showed inflammatory cells and urine culture was positive for urinary tract infection, finding Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, confirming the diagnosis of chronic inflammatory process in relation to tuberculous pyeloureteral disease.

Treatment
Once the definitive diagnosis was obtained, treatment was started with antituberculosis drugs (complete regimen with isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol for 6 months). In addition, a ureteral JJ catheter was placed, which was removed after completion of anti-infective medical treatment.

Evolution
At present, the patient is asymptomatic, without a JJ ureteral catheter and control imaging tests 9 months after the end of tuberculostatic treatment show significant resolution of the left obstructive uropathy.

