HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Male, 53 years old. No known drug allergies.

Family history
Mother died suddenly at the age of 72. Maternal uncle died in operating theatre during anaesthetic induction.

Cardiovascular risk factors
Smoker of about 30 pack-years
Non-drinker
No hypertension, DM or LD
No known cardiological history
Other: reactive depression
Treatments: omeprazole and deprax

Current illness
53-year-old patient who consults for syncope. First syncope 18 months ago, when she consulted this centre, but requested voluntary discharge before the aetiology could be studied. Repeated another 6 times, with prodromes - loss of consciousness - rapid recovery. One of them at rest. 

Physical examination
COC.
Afebrile.
A: 100/60.
HR: 55 bpm.
BEG.
NHNC.
Normal PC.
Arterial pulse bisferiens.
Cardiac auscultation: RsCsRs with systolic murmur III/VI with preserved s2 in aortic focus irradiated to the rest of foci. Decrease in murmur until it disappeared with squatting.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur.
Soft, non-painful abdomen with no masses or megaliths.
Positive radial and pedial arterial pulses, bilateral and symmetrical.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood count, biochemistry and coagulation: no alterations. Chest X-ray: cardiothoracic index normal, without condensation or signs of heart failure.
ECG: sinus rhythm with LV enlargement and signs of overload. Transthoracic echocardiogram: LA moderately dilated (33 cm2 and 4.5 cm). LV with severe hypertrophy of septal predominance (23 mm), not dilated, with preserved systolic function. Mitral SAM. LVOT obstruction with maximum gradient 111 mmHg, baseline. Severe eccentric MI. Telemetry during hospitalisation: no rhythm alterations.

EVOLUTION
Patient admitted to Cardiology for syncope under study. Auscultation revealed a murmur that decreased with manoeuvres that increased ventricular volume (increased afterload with squatting) and an ECG with criteria of left ventricular hypertrophy and a bisferiens arterial pulse, for which he was admitted with the suspicion of obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This suspicion was confirmed by echocardiography, which revealed atrial dilatation and obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract. The patient was monitored with telemetry from admission, and no arrhythmic events were observed. In accordance with the new guidelines on hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, the risk of sudden death at 5 years was calculated, with a result of more than 6%, and therefore the implantation of a defibrillator was recommended. Consent was obtained both for ICD implantation and for blood extraction for genetic study, and a family study of the index case was begun.

DIAGNOSIS
Index case obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Secondary syncope.
