We present the case of a 57-year-old male, active smoker, with a history of mild chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with glycopyrronium bromide. He attended the emergency department for paraesthesia and inability to walk for 48 hours. In the previous days she had presented with vomiting, greenish diarrhoea of up to 18 stools per day, fever of 38oC and general malaise after eating eggs.
On arrival at the ED, blood pressure was 181/118 mmHg, heart rate 118 bpm and temperature 35.4oC. Physical examination revealed peripheral hypoperfusion in both lower limbs, with livedo reticularis up to the pelvis. Laboratory tests showed haemoglobin 15 mg/dl, leucocytes 5.9 10.70×103/l, creatinine 2.45 mg/dl, creatine kinase 20,000 U/L, sodium 140 mEq/l, potassium 5.5 mEq/L, pH 7.15, pCO2 44 mm Hg, pO2 98 mm Hg, lactic acid 10.1 mg/dL.
Suspecting acute arterial ischaemia, an abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan with contrast showed aneurysmal dilatation and complete thrombosis of the infrarenal abdominal aorta. He underwent emergency right axillo-bifemoral by-pass surgery.
Low molecular weight heparin was started in addition to empirical antibiotic therapy with meropenem and vancomycin due to persistent fever. After 5 days of admission, multisensitive group D Salmonella was isolated in blood cultures, only resistant to quinolones, so he was de-escalated to ceftriaxone 2g daily for a total of 8 weeks. Despite antibiotherapy, daily febrile peaks persisted. After ruling out alternative sources of infection, there was a high suspicion of infection of the endovascular prosthesis. For this reason, a fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography or PET (18F-FDG)-CT scan was performed, which showed non-specific inflammatory activity throughout the bypass, especially in the thoracic tract. Finally, a gammagraphic study was performed with autologous leukocytes labelled with HMPAO-Tc99m, which finally ruled out infection at the bypass level.
After a prolonged admission lasting two months with numerous complications, the patient remained afebrile, with negative blood cultures for subsequent controls, and was able to return to his daily activities without incident, although with the help of rehabilitation treatment.
