Anamnesis
A 73-year-old man with a history of stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and a history of transurethral resection of the prostate 12 years ago. He was referred from another centre with a diagnosis of left orchitis of 24 hours' evolution after presenting with acute scrotal pain without a justified cause, due to poor response to treatment and worsening general condition with signs of necrosis of the scrotal skin.

Physical examination
Conscious, oriented, Glasgow 15. Heart rate 80 bpm, blood pressure 120/70 mmHg, SO2 94%. Pulmonary and cardiac auscultation without significant findings. Abdomen: globular, soft, depressible, non-painful, with no signs of peritoneal irritation. External genitalia: urethral catheter, enlarged and erythematous scrotum extending to the bilateral inguinal and suprapubic region, not painful on palpation and with a large necrotic plaque at the level of the median raphe with subcutaneous crepitus.

Complementary tests
- CBC (on admission): haemoglobin 11.7 g/dl, haematocrit 34, leukocytes 13.9 mil/mm3, neutrophils 95%. Platelets 78 mil/mm3, creatinine 4.2 mg/dl, basal glucose 185 mg/dl.
- Arterial blood gases: pH 7.24, pO2 78 mmHg, pCO2 42 mmHg, HCO3 17 mmol/l.

Diagnosis
With the diagnosis of sepsis secondary to possible necrotising fasciitis, emergency surgery was proposed.

Treatment
Antibiotic treatment with linezolid, meropenem and intravenous metronidazole was started. During the operation, the bladder catheter was replaced by suprapubic cystotomy and extensive debridement was performed with exeresis of all the necrotic tissue that affected from Buck's fascia surrounding the corpora cavernosa and spongiosum to the subcutaneous cellular tissue, tunica vaginalis of both testicles (not affected), reaching the superficial inguinal orifices and the suprapubic region, especially on the left side, as well as the perineal region. Rectal examination was performed, revealing in time 12 and distal to the sphincter a foreign body with a sharp, hard consistency, approximately 3-4 cm in length, which was sent to the Pathology Department. Two Penrose type drains are left in the counter incision, one in the region of the perineal declivity and the other in the left inguinal region. Tissue samples were sent for aerobic and anaerobic microorganisms. After completion of the operation, the discovery of the foreign body was discussed with the family, who warned us of the patient's habit of defecating in the field, cleaning himself with stones and bushes.

Evolution
During the operation, the patient remained unstable, with a tendency to hypotension and tachyarrhythmia, and was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). After 5 days in the ICU, he was transferred to the urology ward in good general condition, afebrile, haemodynamically stable and with a good appearance of the surgical wound.
Bacteriology: positive for Escherichia coli and Streptococcus viridans. Antibiotic therapy was adjusted according to the antibiogram.
On the tenth postoperative day, under general anaesthesia, the wound was checked and the edges were approximated. After receiving rehabilitative treatment and after checking spontaneous urination following the removal of the bladder size, the patient was discharged from hospital 23 days after admission.
Pathological anatomy: 3.2 cm long piece in the shape of a thorn corresponding to the histological structure of bone.
