A 39-year-old man consulted in the emergency department for weakness in the left lower limb (LLM) of approximately 12 hours of evolution with no other additional clinical symptoms. He was a smoker and cocaine user, with no other pathology of interest.
On arrival, BP 120/70 mmHg HR: 94 bpm Ta:36.5oC. On neurological examination, conscious, oriented. Anisocoria, enlarged right pupil, barely reactive to light, left pupil with preserved photomotor reflex, maintaining accommodation reflex, compatible with Argyll Robertson pupils. In addition, motor deficit in MII of distal predominance (3/5) with hypoaesthesia and left extensor CPR. The rest of the examination was normal, except for possible candida in the jugal mucosa, with no skin lesions.
Complementary tests were performed with ECG, chest X-ray and basic laboratory tests with no findings of interest, except for urine which confirmed positive for cocaine. A simple cranial CT scan showed an image compatible with early acute-subcute right capsular-lenticular lacunar infarction.
On the Neurology ward, a study of stroke in a young patient was completed and a positive ELISA HIV and W Blot were found, as well as positive treponema pallidum, with positive RPR at 1/64, with the rest of the serologies and autoimmunity normal. Cerebral and supra-aortic trunk CT angiography showed multiple patchy infarctions suggestive of a vasculitic process and 30-45% stenosis of the left internal carotid artery. In view of these findings, the patient was transferred to Internal Medicine and a study was completed showing HIV PCR: 116805 copies/ml, subtype B without primary resistance and total CD4 227 (12%), CD8 1535 (80%), ratio 0.15. Given the context of the patient, a lumbar puncture was performed and a positive VDRL was obtained in CSF (negative for Cryptococcus, Borrelia burgdorferi, mycobacteria). Biochemistry: ADA 8, Leucocytes 48 cells, L.mononuclear 98%) being this a diagnosis of neurosyphilis so treatment was started with Penicillin G 4 mill IU/4 hours iv for 14 days. The patient showed progressive improvement with partial recovery of mobility of the MII with daily rehabilitation. Ten days after admission, he started treatment with TFV/FTC/Elvitegravir/ cobicistat with good initial tolerance, so that on the 25th day of admission he was discharged with a diagnosis of meningovascular syphilis, neurosyphilis and stage B3 HIV infection.
