Personal history
No personal history of interest. Native of Benin, he had been living in Burkina Faso and Algeria where he presented with fever, pain in the upper limbs and macular hypesthetic skin lesions receiving treatment that we do not know.

Current illness
In September 2009, he arrived in Algeciras by boat, where he presented fever, pain in the tip of the finger on the right side and semiology of pleural effusion. Among other complementary examinations, thoracentesis was performed with cell count with pleocytosis of lymphocytic predominance and elevated adenosine deaminase, cataloguing it as a possible tuberculous aetiology and initiating specific treatment. The patient was transferred to the Red Cross Reception Centre in Puente Genil (Córdoba) and as general symptoms persisted and the patient reported diffuse abdominal discomfort, nausea and progressive loss of vision, we were referred for assessment and treatment. The patient also presented with rhinorrhoea, loss of distal sensitivity in both lower limbs and hypochromic macules for several months.

Physical examination
On examination he was in good general condition, well nourished and hydrated. He was afebrile, eupneic, with bilateral leucomas on the face and skull, without lagophthalmos. Cardiorespiratory auscultation was normal. He had pain on palpation in the right hemiabdomen and cryptorchidism, as well as retraction of the fifth finger of the left hand, and necrosis of the tips of the toes of both feet. Distributed all over the trunk and less on the upper limbs, there were several macular lesions of different sizes, hypoesthetic and hypochromic. No lymph nodes were palpable at any level. Neurological examination revealed bilateral interosseous and hypothenar atrophy; decreased strength in the quadriceps and hamstrings; paresis of the left sciatic-popliteal muscles with equine gait; hypoactive bicipital osteotendinous reflexes; preserved algesic sensitivity up to the distal third of the arms and legs, with positional and vibratory anaesthesia; stable standing and negative Romberg; normal coordination and tabetic gait.

Complementary examinations
General laboratory tests showed normal haemacytometry (absence of eosinophilia); complete biochemistry normal except for CK 673 U/L; elemental urinalysis was normal.
Sputum smears and serial sputum cultures were negative. Serology for HIV, hepatitis B and C virus, Epstein-Barr virus, Cytomegalovirus, Leishmania and Toxoplasma were negative for acute infection. Tuberculin test with 12 mm induration.
Chest X-ray showed obliteration of the right costophrenic sinus. Abdominal ultrasound showed no remarkable findings. Bone mapping was performed, showing calcification at the interosseous margins of both knees (Pedegrini-Stiese disease), Dupuytren's contracture in the right hand (fifth finger) and loss of the last phalanges of both feet.
The electroneurogram and electromyogram of the peroneal and ulnar nerves showed severe polyneuropathic, sensory and motor involvement, of a demyelinating nature and extending to the upper and lower limbs.

Clinical judgement
Multibacillary leprosy. Probable pleural tuberculosis.

Evolution
The patient underwent a multidisciplinary assessment by dermatology, neurology and ophthalmology, all of which concluded that the patient had leprosy.

The following recommendations were made to the patient:
- Daily hand and foot mobilisation exercises.
- Daily skin care, with daily shower washing, using gel with moisturising cream, then drying and applying moisturising oil all over the body, and finally applying restructuring cream, especially to the hands and feet.
- Avoid exposure to heat in non-sensitive areas.
- Use soft footwear, preferably adapted footwear.
- Daily eye care with application of artificial eye drops (one drop every 1-2 hours during the day) and epithelialising ointment at night at bedtime.

The patient was treated for tuberculosis, receiving rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and ethambutol for two months and rifampicin and isoniazid for the following four months. To this regimen, dapsone 100 mg was added, one tablet daily for one year (the patient had already completed standardised treatment with three drugs - dapsone, rifampicin and clofazimine - for more than a year).
After the initial treatment, the patient went for a check-up on 15 April 2010 and was found to be stable, with no new medical problems. Contact has been made with the Fontilles Centre where the patient will be sent for assessment and follow-up. He is awaiting corneal transplant surgery by the Ophthalmology Service.
