Anamnesis
Male patient aged 45 years, with arterial hypertension, dyslipidaemia, hepatitis C, mild mitral insufficiency, chronic renal insufficiency secondary to posterior urethral valve, who required substitutive treatment since 1980. He underwent bilateral nephrectomy, parathyroid due to hyperfunction secondary to transplant, melanocytic nevus and carpal tunnel syndrome.
He underwent renal transplant in 2008 and was initially treated with immunosuppressive therapy with deflazacort, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus. He required permanent bladder catheterisation due to detrusor acontractility, refusing intermittent catheterisation. She had good control and stable renal function.
In 2012, she presented with numerous repeated urinary tract infections caused by different germs, such as Morganella and Escherichia coli, which were detected in cultures, without haematuria and with the presence of mycosuria.

Physical examination
Good general condition, afebrile. Absence of weight loss. No oedema of the lower limbs. Abdomen soft and depressible, without masses or megaliths, except for renal implant in the right iliac fossa, no signs of peritoneal irritation or bladder balloon. Scars from mid laparotomy and renal transplant on the abdominal wall. Genitalia without alterations.


Complementary tests
- An abdominal ultrasound was requested, identifying abundant intravesical echogenic material, as well as a lesion measuring 3.4 x 2.7 cm with vascularisation, suggestive of bladder neoformation.
- For this reason, a cystoscopy was requested, which revealed a medium with abundant mucus and a papillary lesion of approximately 3 cm suggestive of malignancy.

Diagnosis
Transurethral resection of the bladder was therefore performed, with an anatomopathological diagnosis of intravesical enteric adenocarcinoma, without involvement of the muscular wall.
Given the results, an extension study was carried out to rule out concomitant neoplasia, and a thoraco-abdominal-pelvic computed tomography (CT) scan was performed, with no evidence of a primary tumour.

Treatment
The case was assessed by the uro-oncology committee and it was decided to undertake radical surgery, so the patient was offered radical cystoprostatectomy with bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy and diversion of the ureter to the ileum.
The pathological result of the surgical specimen was mucinous adenocarcinoma of the enteric bladder type, multifocal, with transmural involvement up to the vicinity of the perivesical fat, ureteral segment free of tumour, lymph nodes without tumour involvement, prostate and seminal vesicles free of tumour.

Evolution
During the postoperative period, the patient had a good evolution, with stable renal function and preserved diuresis.
After assessment by Medical Oncology, the need for systemic adjuvant treatment was ruled out. Nephrology did change the immunosuppressant to everolimus.
One month after the operation, the pigtails catheter was removed and the patient presented ureterohydronephrosis and deterioration of renal function, with creatinine of 2.3 mg/dl.
A URO-CT scan was requested, showing stenosis of the uretero-ileal junction due to granuloma; given that the patient maintained a diuresis of 2,500-4,000 ml/24 hours, and creatinine of 2.4, it was decided to maintain a conservative approach. The patient presented a progressive decrease in renal function until reaching a pre-surgical level of 1.5. At the tenth month after surgery, the patient showed a stable evolution, with no signs of recurrence of the disease.
