Personal history
Male, 27 years old, from Ghana, resident in Spain for two years. He lived in a foster home. No risk factors for the acquisition of sexually transmitted diseases or toxic habits. No other history of interest.

Present illness
She came to the emergency department with a fever of up to 39oC together with general malaise, fever and shivering of fifteen days of evolution. She did not report any other accompanying symptoms.

Physical examination
The patient was conscious, oriented and cooperative. He was febrile (39oC) and had an arterial oxygen saturation of 98%, with a heart rate of around 95 bpm. The neurological examination did not reveal any noteworthy findings. No axillary, cervical or supraclavicular lymph nodes were palpable. The pharyngeal examination, cardiorespiratory auscultation, abdominal palpation and examination of the lower limbs were normal.

Complementary examinations
The haemoglobin level was 10.3 g/dL, leukocytes 2,770/μL, (LUC 7.6%), and 99,000 platelets/μL. The CD4+ lymphocyte count was 247 cells/μL. Biochemistry showed elevated liver enzymes (GOT 555 IU/L, GPT 292 IU/L, GGT 459 IU/L, alkaline phosphatase 405 IU/L, total bilirubin 3.6 mg/dL), LDH 3,572 IU/L and beta-2-microglobulin 4.1 mg/L. Acute phase reactants were progressively elevated (C-reactive protein from 12.3 to 216 mg/dL and sedimentation rate from 37 to 49 mm/h). Antinuclear and anti-DNA antibodies were negative. The proteinogram showed polyclonal hypergammaglobulinaemia. In the anaemia study, iron overload was detected, and in terms of coagulation, prothrombin activity was 64%. Peripheral blood smear showed polychromasia with basophilic stippling and no schistocytes. Serology for Rickettsia, Brucella, Coxiella, Chlamydia, lupus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Toxoplasma, Cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus, Epstein-Barr virus and HIV were negative. Blood cultures were negative. As for hepatitis markers, he had negative antibodies to hepatitis A and C virus; positive hepatitis B virus (HBV) surface antigen; positive HBV core antibody; negative IgM surface antigen antibody; negative HBV e antigen; negative HBV PCR viral load 1,377,881 IU/mL (log 6.13); positive hepatitis D virus antibodies. Chest X-ray and echocardiography were normal. Abdominal ultrasound and CT scan of the chest and abdomen revealed moderate hepatosplenomegaly (spleen 17.6 cm in its major axis).

Diagnostic test
Bone marrow aspirate: presence of Leishmania.

Clinical judgement
Visceral leishmaniasis. Chronic hepatitis B virus hepatitis B with delta superinfection.

Evolution
After diagnosis, the patient was treated with liposomal amphotericin B 4 mg/kg/day for five days and then continued with 4 mg/kg/day for five weeks. An ampoule of vitamin K was also administered daily. Within 48 hours of starting treatment, the fever disappeared and the patient remained asymptomatic since then. Laboratory parameters showed a tendency to normalisation (GOT 128 IU/L, GPT 150 IU/L, total bilirubin 1.7 mg/dL, LDH 997 IU/L, prothrombin activity 81% and CD4+ 608). The patient was referred to the Digestive Unit for further follow-up of his liver pathology.
