A 21-year-old woman from India, resident in Spain since she was two years old, with no personal history of interest, consulted the emergency department a month earlier, after returning from a trip to India, for a picture of liquid diarrhoea of 6-8 stools a day without pathological products, and in the last week, fever of up to 39.5°C. She had no respiratory or urinary symptoms. She had no associated respiratory or urinary symptoms, although she reported mild abdominal pain.

The trip was for religious/family reasons, arranged marriage, with a stay of 6 months mainly in the state of Rajasthan (North West of the Indian subcontinent), in a rural area, living with friends and relatives with eating habits according to local cuisine and traditions. She reports unprotected sexual relations with her husband after marriage. She did not bathe in rivers or lakes. On physical examination she had a blood pressure (BP) of 100/65 mm Hg with a heart rate (HR) at 100 beats per minute (bpm) and a temperature of 39 °C. The abdomen was not distended, with normal hydroaerial sounds, and with minimal pain in the right iliac fossa with no signs of peritoneal irritation. The rest of the physical examination was normal.

Laboratory tests showed altered liver biochemistry with a pattern of dissociated cholestasis: GOT 473 IU/l, GPT 153 IU/l, FA 272 IU/l, GGT 323 IU/l and bilirubin in the normal range. C-reactive protein (CRP) was 67 mg/l. The haemogram showed 12000 leukocytes/mm3 with neutrophilia (polymorphonuclear 78%) and Hb 6.5 g/l (VCM 82 fL, HCHM 30 pG). All other parameters including renal function, platelet count and coagulation study were normal. A supine abdominal X-ray was performed with no relevant findings, as well as an abdominal ultrasound showing homogeneous splenomegaly with no other alterations. The thick blood smear and peripheral blood smear showed no evidence of parasites. An urgent pregnancy test was performed with a positive result, so she was transferred to the Maternity Hospital for gynaecological assessment, confirming gestation with a foetus with no signs of viability, so, after water and electrolyte replacement and transfusion of blood products, she underwent uterine curettage. Subsequent clinical evolution was not favourable, with persistent fever, diarrhoea and decreased level of consciousness, so it was decided to start empirical antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone and metronidazole, with suspicion of septic symptoms after curettage. However, in the absence of response, it was decided to consult with Infectious Diseases.

Differential diagnosis
The diarrhoeal symptoms of more than three weeks' duration, with short-lasting fever, the recent history of travel to a tropical area, the type of travel, the pregnancy-induced immunosuppression and the lack of initial response to empirical broad-spectrum antibiotherapy are key details in the diagnostic approach to this patient. Diarrhoea following a trip to the tropics is the most frequent reason for consultation at traveller's pathology centres. The most frequent microorganisms of bacterial origin are: Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli, enteroaggregative Escherichia coli, Campylobacter jejuni, Shigella spp and Salmonella spp. Other agents to consider are: Norovirus, Rotavirus, Giardia lamblia, Entamoeba histolytica and Cyclospora. Most of them cause acute symptoms, which manifest themselves within the first two weeks of acquisition, are self-limiting and have a good response to etiological treatment, if necessary. In this patient, the duration of the symptoms makes it unlikely that they are due to the most common bacterial microorganisms. Furthermore, all of them should have responded to the antibiotic treatment initiated. A viral aetiology has been ruled out due to the duration of the symptoms. The type of non-inflammatory diarrhoea makes Entamoeba histolytica unlikely. A parasitic origin is therefore more likely, which would have to be ruled out by stool examination. However, the splenomegaly observed, as well as the CRP values, are not initially consistent with the possibility of a parasitic aetiology. The severe anaemia on admission, with no evidence of external bleeding, together with the chronic nature of the symptoms, could indicate a long-standing infection or chronic intestinal blood loss that is not evident. Given the high rate of Salmonella typhoid infection in India, the possibility of typhoid fever with intestinal microbleeding due to Peyer's plaque hypertrophy should be considered, a diagnosis that would justify the associated splenomegaly. However, typhoid fever usually presents as an acute systemic condition, which is not consistent with the chronicity of the clinical picture in this patient. Furthermore, splenomegaly is not a specific finding and there are numerous infectious and non-infectious causes that may explain it. Unprotected sexual relations make it necessary to rule out HIV infection with associated opportunistic infection, with germs such as Cryptosporidium or Cyclospora. Finally, it must be taken into account that pregnancy induces cellular immunosuppression that can facilitate infections by rare germs such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Evolution
Based on the above, the following were requested as part of the microbiological diagnostic study: stool culture in which Salmonella non-typhi was isolated (S. enteritidis, R to nalidixic acid, MIC >16 mg/ml); smear microscopy which was negative and culture of mycobacteria; stool parasite study which was negative, and blood cultures which were also negative. Serological studies including HIV, HAV, HBV, HCV, Coxiella burnetti, Rickettsia connori and Brucella melitensis were negative. Water and electrolyte supplementation was intensified, and a progressive oral diet was started, with a favourable evolution: self-limitation of the diarrhoea and afebrile 5 days after starting antibiotic therapy, with a decrease in acute phase reactants (AFR) in control analyses (Leukocytes 9000/microl and CRP 12 mg/l).

 Based on stool isolation, clinical and analytical improvement, together with the absence of clinical signs suggestive of septic process, it was decided to discontinue empirical antibiotherapy 7 days after its initiation. After 48 hours of clinical observation, she was discharged for outpatient follow-up with a diagnosis of "acute gastroenteritis due to Salmonella non-typhi" on chronic diarrhoea following a trip to the tropics, without microbiological isolation and uterine curettage due to spontaneous abortion.

Fifteen days later, she was readmitted for persistent diarrhoea, asthenia, poor oral intake and fever of up to 40°C, with a tendency to sleep. On admission she had a BP 90/40 mm Hg, HR 110 bpm and T 39.8°C. On examination she was conscious and oriented, although she tended to sleep. The rest of the neurological and cardiorespiratory examination was normal. The abdomen was soft and not distended, with abundant peristaltic sounds and painful on selective palpation in FID, with no signs of peritoneal irritation or hepatosplenomegaly. Rectal examination showed an empty rectal ampulla, with no traces of bleeding. There were no palpable adenopathies or skin alterations.

Chest X-ray was performed in posteroanterior and lateral projections without alterations. Blood tests showed creatinine 1.22 mg/dl, urea 46 mg/dl, K 2.5 mEq/l, Na 125 mEq/l, CRP 116 mg/l, amylase 200 IU/l, GOT 520 IU/l, GPT 180 IU/l, FA 302 IU/l, GGT 380 IU/l and bilirubin in normal range. The total leukocyte count was 10,000/mm3 with 600 lymphocytes/mm3. The haemogram showed mild anaemia 12.7 g/l with platelets and coagulation in the normal range. The ultrasound study showed no alterations with respect to the previous one. Blood cultures were obtained and Salmonella typhi (R to Nalidixic Acid, MIC >16 mg/ml) was isolated, so antibiotic treatment with ceftriaxone was started for 14 days. The isolation of two different subtypes of the same species, in two consecutive admissions, within a short period of time and without clinical improvement, led to the typing of the stool culture from the first admission with MALDITOF, which was finally identified as Salmonella typhy with the same antibiogram as the blood culture. Despite intravenous antibiotic treatment for two weeks with a negative blood culture after 5 days, the patient did not improve with daily evening fever, diarrhoea and abdominal pain.

The diagnosis of acute gastroenteritis on first admission did not justify the clinical chronology of the clinical picture. The isolation of Salmonella tiphy in blood cultures made it possible to correct the initial diagnosis, which, however, still did not explain all the present symptoms, due to both the duration and the lack of response to treatment with ceftriaxone. Acquired resistance to third generation cephalosporins, although a possibility, is extremely rare. Two options were therefore considered: co-infection by an unidentified germ or extending the study to non-infectious causes, among which neoplastic processes (neuroendocrine, lymphomas or adenocarcinoma) or autoimmune processes such as inflammatory bowel disease should be ruled out as the main suspicions. In this sense, a colonoscopy was proposed for the diagnostic study. On re-interrogation and further anamnesis, the patient reported a weight loss of approximately 20 kg in the last 3 months, with a current BMI of 23.9 kg/m2 (previous BMI of 31.2 kg/m2 with a body weight loss of 23.6% in that period). Also, prior to the onset of the diarrhoea, he had profuse night sweats, which he interpreted as fever, but never observed.

Finally, the microbiology laboratory reported the growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in the stool sample obtained on the first hospital admission (22 days earlier). Treatment was started with a standard regimen of Isoniazid (H), Rifampicin (R) and Pyrazinamide (Z) (Rifater ®), adjusted to weight. One week later, the patient showed evident improvement in general and nutritional status, was afebrile with resolution of diarrhoea and abdominal pain, so colonoscopy was not considered necessary. The patient received a total of 2 months of HRZ and 7 months of HR, with regular outpatient visits, favourable evolution, negative stool culture at one month of treatment, and no evidence of extraintestinal involvement.

Final diagnosis
Intestinal tuberculosis and typhoid fever and associated protein-calorie malnutrition.
