Reason for consultation
Insomnia and anxiety.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
The patient came to the clinic because she reported feeling very restless and had been unable to fall asleep for several days. After a few minutes in the consultation room, she finally tells us that she works as a prostitute and that a fortnight ago her condom broke and that since then she "can't stop thinking about whether there is something wrong with her". On reviewing her history, we see that she has consulted on multiple occasions for the same reason.
The patient has no personal history of interest. NAMC. No surgical interventions. The patient denies any other symptoms. No genital complaints. No general condition. No fever.
Conscious and oriented. BEG. BH.BP. ACP. Rhythmic without murmurs. VCM without noises.
Examination of the genitalia (no lymphadenopathy, ulcers or external signs of infection are evident).

Family and community approach
The patient lives with her daughter and two grandchildren and reports being worried about them in case "something might happen to them".

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Contraceptive method failure in at-risk population. Transient insomnia.

Action plan and evolution
We request analyses with serology for syphilis, H H V, HAV, HBV, HCV. We request cytology.
We make recommendations regarding STD prevention:

1- Recommendations:
Do not share sharp or cutting objects.
Your partner or trusted client may be infected without knowing it and transmit the infection.

2-Main warning signs of STIs:
Lesions on the genitals (sores, scabs, oozing, inflammation etc.) Increased vaginal discharge with pain and unpleasant odour.
Persistent itching or burning.
However, many STIs can go unnoticed.

3. How are STIs transmitted?
By sexual transmission. Vaginal, anal or oral-genital sex without a condom with an infected person.
By blood. Through sharp or cutting elements shared with other people: razors, needles, syringes, piercing and tattooing tools.
Perinatal route. During pregnancy, childbirth or breastfeeding.

4- How is HIV not transmitted?
By living or working with an infected person.
By shaking hands, kissing, caressing or hugging.
By sharing clothes, plates, cutlery, glasses, showers or toilets.
