45-day-old female infant with catarrhal symptoms lasting one week. For the last 3 days, she presented with cough in fits and starts followed by facial flushing, for which she was prescribed dextromethorphan. Thirty minutes ago she had an episode of apnoea with skin pallor and cyanosis of the lips, for which the father performed mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, with subsequent recovery of respiration. During his stay in the emergency department he has presented 2-3 episodes of apnoea without previous coughing spells, followed by bradycardia.

PERSONAL HISTORY:
Controlled gestation, with threatened preterm labour in week 33 treated with atosiban and pulmonary maturation with corticoids. Immune serology for rubella, toxoplasma, HIV and HBV negative. Emergency caesarean section, due to previous caesarean sections, at 33 weeks' gestation. Apgar 9/4. Type III resuscitation. Admitted to neonatology after an episode of cyanosis with desaturation requiring positive pressure ventilation and subsequent orotracheal intubation, with connection to conventional mechanical ventilation and subsequently to high frequency (for 5 days), being discharged at 12 days of life with the diagnoses of: persistent pulmonary hypertension of the NB, preterm low birth weight (2400 g) appropriate to gestational age, hyaline membrane disease grade III, patent ductus arteriosus closed spontaneously and left atelectasis. Feeding with artificial lactation. Immunisation schedule not yet started. Pending neonatology check-up, fundus examination and auditory evoked potentials.

FAMILY HISTORY
Not relevant.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION
Weight: 3300 g (p50-75), Length 51 cm (p90), WC 35 cm (p75), HR 147 bpm, RR 39 rpm, Saturation 100% Good general condition- Good colouring, hydration and perfusion- No rash or petechiae- No respiratory distress. AP: Good bilateral ventilation, with some transmitted noises from the upper airways. Cardiac auscultation: normal- Abdomen soft and depressible, not painful, no masses or visceromegaly palpable ENT: normal. Neurological: 2 x 2 cm normotensive anterior fontanel. Good spontaneous activity. Reactive to stimuli. Normal tone and strength. Normal external genitalia.

COMPLEMENTARY EXAMINATIONS:
Haemogram: 9400 leucocytes/mm3 (42%N, 51%L, 6%M), Hb 9.7 gr/dl, Hcto 28%, platelets 665000. Biochemistry: glucose, ions, urea and creatinine normal. CRP < 0.3 mg/dl. Capillary blood gases: pH
 7.25, pCO2 64 mm HG, HCO- 27.6 mmol/l, EB 0.1 mmol/l, lactic 1.3 mmol/l. Chest X-ray: bilateral interstitial infiltrate Antigenic determination of RSV, influenza A and B: negative. Blood culture: no growth. Stool culture and antigenic determination of rotavirus and adenovirus in stool: negative. PCR Bordetella pertussis: positive.

EVOLUTION
On admission he presented two episodes of apnoea with facial pallor, cyanosis of the lips and bradycardia requiring stimulation, so he was transferred to the NICU for respiratory support with nasal CPAP, despite which he continued with apnoea, so he was transferred to nasal CMV after 48 hours and empirical treatment was started with azithromycin and cefotaxime due to suspicion of pertussis syndrome and the possibility of respiratory co-infection, given the existence of bilateral interstitial infiltrate. After withdrawal of respiratory support, the patient evolved favourably, with a progressive decrease in coughing spells and associated episodes of desaturation, which required stimulation. At discharge, good oral tolerance, with adequate weight gain (weight at discharge 3420 gr) and few coughing spells, which did not require stimulation for recovery.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS
Whooping cough
