A 71 year old woman with only personal history of pyohydronephrosis in 1985 with the need for external drainage. She came to the emergency department for 2 months of asthenia, weight loss of 10 kg in 6 months and night sweats. On examination, general condition was fair, sweating, tachycardic at 120 bpm, blood pressure normal, O2 sat 94% and temperature 37.8oC, pain on percussion in the right renal fossa, the rest unaltered.
In the ED he presented leukocytosis with neutrophilia, normochromic normocytic anaemia (Hb 10.2 mg/dl) and elevated acute phase reactants. Urine compatible with infection (significant leukocyturia with bacteriuria). Chest X-ray showed mediastinal widening with tracheal shift to the left. Blood and urine cultures were taken and empirical antibiotherapy with Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid was started. He was admitted to Internal Medicine for urinary tract infection and constitutional syndrome under study, possibly lymphoma with B symptoms.
On the ward, clinical and analytical improvement of the infectious data with isolation of Proteus mirabillis in urine culture, sensitive to Ciprofloxacin. Clinical ultrasound showed a mass that did not allow the right renal silhouette to be identified. A thoracoabdominal CT scan was requested, showing a calcified endothoracic goitre and in the abdomen there was complete destructuring and replacement of the right kidney by a conglomerate of confluent cystic lesions, with polylobulated arrachymal morphology measuring 11x12x13 cm, also affecting the right ureter; bilateral renal lithiasis, some coraliform; the first possibility was xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis.
Xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis is a rare variant of chronic pyelonephritis that is usually due to obstruction by infected lithiasis, the most frequent microorganisms being E. coli and Proteus mirabilis. It usually occurs in middle-aged women with a history of recurrent urinary tract infection; symptoms include fever, asthenia, anorexia and weight loss. Laboratory findings include anaemia and elevated ESR, urine with evidence of infection and urine culture positive for enterobacteria. The imaging test of choice is CT scan and the definitive diagnosis is anatomopathological, observing groups of xanthomatous cells and cells with a pseudoglandular pattern that are degenerated renal tubules, it is important to differentiate it from clear cell renal carcinoma. The treatment of choice is nephrectomy together with pre- and post-surgical antibiotherapy.
