Medical history/ Anamnesis:
79-year-old male with no known drug allergies, with personal history of arterial hypertension, Diabetes Mellitus (DM) type 2, dyslipidaemia, ankylosing spondylitis (AS) of 20 years of evolution on treatment with anti-TNF for 6 years, Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, several episodes of TIA, bladder neoplasia operated on 11 years ago in remission. On treatment with valsartan, lecardinipine, atorvastatin, lansoprazole, metfromin, dacortin 2.5mg/day, sintrom and adalimumab 40 mg every 15 days. She had two dogs as pets. She had not travelled recently and denied consumption of unpasteurised dairy products. She came to the emergency department with a fever of up to 38oC with shivering and shivering without a clear time predominance for a week, accompanied by deterioration of the general condition and glycaemic decompensation. He also presented with pleuritic pain in the left hemithorax and several episodes of arterial hypotension that had forced him to visit the emergency department on several occasions in the previous days. There were no respiratory, gastrointestinal or urinary symptoms.

Physical examination
Normotensive and tachycardic at 120 beats per minute. Oxygen saturation 98% at baseline. T 38.3o. Poor general condition, sweating with distal skin coldness. Eupneic at rest. No peripheral palpation lymphadenopathy or jugular ingurgitation. Arrhythmic tones with multifocal systolic murmur II/IV. Generalised hypoventilation. Abdomen and lower limbs without significant findings. No neurological focality or meningeal signs.

Complementary tests in the emergency department
Laboratory tests performed on admission showed the following: Haemoglobin (hb): 11.2 g/dl, leukocytes 2.240 x 109/L, absolute neutrophils: 0.750x109/L, absolute lymphocytes: 1.240x109/L, platelets: 115x109/L, creatinine: 1.1mg/dl with normal ions. CRP: 70 mg/L. LDH: 321 U/L. Urine with signs of haemoglobin. Coagulation and blood gas normal. Peripheral blood smear with scanty polymorphonuclear cells with a few cays, with a predominance of mature and granular lymphocytes, isolated cells with an activated appearance. Chest X-ray: Cardiothoracic index within the normal range. No images of condensation. Pinching of both bilateral costophrenic sinuses.

Admission diagnosis
Febrile syndrome without focus and pancytopenia under study.

Routine complementary tests
During his stay on the ward there was a rapidly progressive decrease in the three series (acute pancytopenia), presenting hb: 8.1 g/dl, platelets: 63x109L; leukocytes: 1,760x109L together with a maximum LDH elevation of 981 U/L and minimal increase in bilirubin at the expense of indirect and decreased haptoglobin, as well as increased ferritin (peak of 4383 ng/ml) and triglycerides 550 mg/dl.

The analytical study was completed with autoimmunity (ANA, ANCA, anti DNA, ENA, anti-mitochondrial, anti-smooth muscle and anti-phospholipid antibodies) which was negative, proteinogram with a doubtful monoclonal gamma component which was later confirmed by immunoelectrophoresis to be free of monoclonal band. Mantoux and quantiferon negative. Legionella, pneumococcus and leishmania urine antigen negative. Urine Lowestein culture negative. Liver serology and Brucella, Salmonella typhi and paratyphi, Ricketsia coronii, Coxiella burneti, CMV, HSV, EBV and Parvovirus B19 negative. HIV negative. Negative blood and urine cultures. Imaging tests showed bilateral pleural effusion and hepatosplenomegaly. Chest CT scan showed pleural calcifications, calcified hepatic granulomas and some calcified adenopathies as well as bilateral pleural effusion with underlying lung collapse. Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography: negative for endocarditis. Finally, a bone marrow (BM) aspirate-biopsy was performed in which the flow cytometry showed the presence of 0.1% of immature myeloid cells without phenotypic aberrations, no monoclonal B lymphoid proliferation, T lymphoid population with CD4/CD8 ratio maintained. The myelogram was inconclusive due to the absence of clumps and low cellularity, although no blasts were observed. The culture for brucella and mycobacteria was negative. The pathological anatomy of the biopsy showed amastigote parasites compatible with leishmania, which was subsequently confirmed by PCR technique for leishmania.

Differential diagnosis
Pancytopenia is defined as a decrease in the normal blood count of leukocytes (<4.5x109/L), haemoglobin according to age and sex, and platelets (<150.0x109/L). Given these findings, it is necessary to perform a differential diagnostic algorithm, which should include mainly onco-haematological, autoimmune or infectious causes. Among the haematological causes, we should mainly rule out neoplasms such as acute leukaemia or bone marrow lymphomas, without forgetting distant metastases from other solid tumours. Other haematological causes to be highlighted are myelodysplastic syndromes, MO aplasia, myelofibrosis, tricholeukaemia, myeloptysis, megaloblastic anaemia and paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria. In general, MO aspirate-biopsy will be necessary for the diagnosis of these entities. One of the main autoimmune causes of pancytopenia is Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (diagnostic criteria include anaemia, leukopenia and thrombopenia) and less frequently rheumatoid arthritis. Numerous causes of infectious origin are associated with cytopenias. For the diagnosis of these, in addition to serological determinations and specific laboratory tests for some of them, a correct anamnesis including information on recent trips, place of origin and usual place of residence, workplace, contact with animals, type of food, etc., will be of great importance. Among the causes of infectious origin we must highlight mainly mycobacteria (tuberculosis), brucellosis, parasites such as leishmania, viruses (HIV, HAV, HBV, HCV, EBV, CMV and parvovirus B19) and bacterial sepsis (the most frequent non-neoplastic cause of pancytopenia in the occipital world). In addition to these three well-differentiated groups of causes of pancytopenia, we could include a fourth group where we would find a miscellany of causes that cannot be included in the previous classification. These include drugs such as some immunosuppressants, anticonvulsants, antidepressants, etc., chemotherapy and radiotherapy, haemophagocytic syndrome and sarcoidosis.

Definitive clinical judgement
Haemophagocytic syndrome secondary to Leishmania infection in a patient with ankylosing spondylitis treated with anti-TNFα.

Evolution
Given the initial suspicion of haemophagocytic syndrome, high-dose corticosteroid and immunosuppressive treatment with ciclosporin A was started, with stabilisation of the three haematological series and a slight decrease in ferritin and in the analytical data of haemophagocytosis. Subsequently, when the diagnosis of leishmaniasis was confirmed, the patient started treatment with liposomal amphotericin B, with a rapid clinical and analytical response, with pancytopenia disappearing and ferritin normalising in about 2 weeks. During follow-up in the clinic, the patient remained asymptomatic, with steroids slowly decreasing. After 1 year of follow-up with a dose of prednisone 7.5 mg per day, his haemogram and ferritin levels were normal.
