A 25-year-old woman was referred to our department to confirm the presence of Susac syndrome due to bilateral visual loss. The patient had a history of balance disturbances, ataxia, faecal and urinary incontinence, and left hearing loss for four years, and was receiving corticosteroids, nimodipine and anticoagulants. Neurological examination revealed spastic paraparesis, tendon hyperreflexia and genitourinary dysfunction. Blood tests including haemogram, general biochemistry, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, angiotensin converting enzyme and coagulation were unaltered. Serology for lues, human immunodeficiency virus, herpes simplex, hepatitis B and C, C-reactive protein, rheumatoid factor, lupus anticoagulant, antinuclear, anticardiolipin, and antiphospholipid antibodies was negative. Chest X-ray, electrocardiogram, echocardiography and cranial computed axial tomography showed no abnormalities. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was clear with normal opening pressure, slightly increased protein, and normal remaining formula. CSF serology for borrelia, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus and syphilis, in addition to the usual cultures were negative. Detection of oligoclonal bands in CSF was also negative. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed multiple focal areas of hyperintensity in the periventricular and pericallosal white matter and in the semioval centre regions. Standard audiometric tests revealed asymmetrical, left-dominant, low-frequency, sensorineural hearing loss. On ophthalmological examination, his visual acuity was 20/25 in both eyes. Goldmann campimetry (Haag-Streit, Bern, Switzerland) showed bitemporal inferior quadrantanopsia. Biomicroscopy of the anterior segment showed no remarkable findings. Funduscopic examination revealed peripheral retinal microangiopathy, showing amputation of vessels with clusters of microaneurysms in both eyes. There were no signs of inflammation or cells in the vitreous and no sheathing of the retinal vessels. Fluorescein angiography (FFA) showed signs of ischaemia in the areas corresponding to the arteriolar occlusions. The diagnosis of Susac syndrome was based on the association of encephalopathy with typical MRI findings, retinal microangiopathy and sensorineural hearing loss.

Due to the evident peripheral retinal ischaemia seen on FFA, retinal laser photocoagulation was performed prophylactically in the ischaemic areas, and the visual picture has remained stable ever since. After two years, there have been no significant changes in neurological or auditory status.
