HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
19-year-old female patient with a personal history of anorexia-bulimia for 2 years undergoing psychological treatment, with no toxic habits. Diagnosed in January 2016 with severe bone marrow aplasia, with no response to immunosuppressive treatment, on the waiting list for a bone marrow transplant. Carrier of subcutaneous venous reservoir. Current history: fever up to 39°C, vomiting and dizziness of less than 24 hours of evolution. She also reports a dry, irritative cough of about 15 days' duration. No rhinorrhoea, no otalgia. No micturition symptoms. No alterations in stool habits. Last transfusion last Thursday. She reported pain and discomfort in the reservoir area of a week's evolution, with erythematous area and increased local heat.

Physical examination
Blood pressure 108/68. Heart rate 123 pm. Temperature 38.50 oC. Oxygen saturation 99% basal. Conscious, oriented, reactive. Glasgow 15. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds, tachycardic. No murmurs were heard. Pulmonary auscultation: normal ventilation in all fields. Bilateral PPR negative. Lower extremities: no oedema, no signs of DVT. Abdomen: soft, depressible, painful on palpation of the epigastrium. No masses or visceromegaly palpable. Peristalsis preserved, no signs of peritonism. Blumberg and Murphy negative.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
CBC: 900 leukocytes with 400 neutrophils per dl, Hb 9.8 g/dl, Hto 28.5%, platelets 8,000. Glucose 103 mg/dl, urea 42 mg/dl, creatinine 0.67 mg/dl, total bilirubin 2.11 mg/dl, Na 136 mEq/l, K 3.8 mEq/l. FA 71 mg/dl, GGT 15 mg/dl, GOT 89 mg/dl, GPT 106 mg/dl, LDH 144 mg/dl. 
Blood cultures: positive for Staphylococcus epidermidis, resistant to cloxacillin.
Chest X-ray: possible consolidating focus in LID.
Echocardiogram: normal LVEF and no contractile asymmetries. Normal diastole. LA not dilated. MV of fine veils, preserved kinetics, no MI. VAo trivalva, fine veils, normal flow. Dilated right chambers (RV inflow tract 50 mm and AD area 23 cm2), with preserved function. TV: thickening (11 mm) of the posterior and proximal subvalvular annulus as well as the entire posterior leaflet. At least two thick, echodense, anarchically moving masses, almost 2 cm long, originating in the atrial side of the posterior annulus and posterior leaflet, suggestive of endocardial involvement. Smaller mobile images can be seen on the other two leaflets. In addition, a rounded, echodense image on distal subvalvular, very mobile, which usually corresponds to fibrosis of the subvalvular, but endocardial involvement at that level cannot be ruled out given the clinical context. Severe TR without appreciating clear perforation of the leaflets. No apparent mobile images on the tip of the central catheter of the RA. PAPs 30-35 mmHg.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: VT compatible with what was seen in TTE: thickening of the posterior and lateral region of the annulus as well as the leaflets, without observing abcessed formations. At least two thick, echodense, anarchically moving masses, about 16 mm long and 7 mm wide, originating in the atrial slope, at the junction of the leaflets and the posterior and lateral annulus, compatible with endocarditic process. Severe tricuspid insufficiency with more echodense formation in distal subvalvular, possibly corresponding to fibrosis, without being able to rule out endocarditic formation at that level.

EVOLUTION
The patient was admitted to the Haematology Department for broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment and transfusion of irradiated products (2 HC and 1 platelet pool in the Emergency Department). Given the suspicion of reservoir infection and possible endocarditis, a transthoracic echocardiogram was requested, where endocarditis was found at the level of the tricuspid valve, which was confirmed after TEE. Broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment was started, awaiting clinical response and to assess options after 6 weeks of antibiotic therapy.

DIAGNOSIS
Severe bone marrow aplasia with no response to immunosuppressive treatment. Endocarditis on tricuspid valve due to Staphylococcus epidermidis.
