Juan is a 20-year-old single patient who lives with his mother. He has no siblings. Academically, he has only completed primary school. He has never had a stable job (he has only occasionally worked as a waiter in a discotheque).
Among the psychobiographical data, the following stand out: the separation of his parents when he was 6 years old; the disappearance of his father 2 years later (because he went to prison, a circumstance that is hidden from him and that the patient discovers accidentally when he is 13-14 years old); the intervention in the family nucleus of his grandmother, an overprotective figure who tends to infantilise him with her treatment, as well as permanently disallowing the role of the mother, who on the other hand is not very present in his education given that after the separation she must take financial responsibility for the family's upkeep. The discovery of his father's whereabouts is experienced by the patient as a betrayal by his parents and this coincides temporarily with his dropping out of school, his first contacts with marginal environments and his beginning to consume toxic substances, without finding any figure to impose limits on these maladaptive behaviours or to serve as a model of "normalised" growth.

Baseline situation
In the months prior to admission: from the critical period referred to above (around the age of 14), according to the family, there is a progressive abandonment of any previous interests (training, work, sports or any other form of leisure and later of affective, friendly or family relationships), with the patient finding himself in the last year in a situation of isolation, inactivity and apathy in which his only regular activity was the consumption of cannabis (even at home and against his mother's verbal prohibitions). His history does not include any history of medical illnesses or relevant surgical interventions, nor any known drug allergies. As a family history, the only known family history is that his father has suffered from compulsive gambling and cannabis abuse.

History of use
Cannabis smoker since the age of 14, with criteria of dependence since the age of 15, reaching quantities of about 10 joints a day and without significant periods of abstinence until the day of admission to our centre. Intranasal cocaine user since the age of 18, meeting abuse criteria for this substance and using quantities that varied according to his economic availability (approximately 0.25 gr/day); he was abstinent in the weeks prior to admission. Alcohol drinker since the age of 7, presenting a pattern of recreational drinking, in moderate quantities and at weekends. Occasional contact with designer drugs between the ages of 15 and 17.
He had not made any attempt to stop drug use until contacting his referral Drug Dependency Centre, about 2 months prior to referral to the Dual Pathology Centre. Nor had he required psychiatric or psychological care until the debut of the current episode about 2 months ago.

Current illness
Admission to the Dual Pathology Centre was voluntary, programmed, referred from a Drug Dependency Care Centre. The aim of the admission was detoxification, the start of detoxification, the carrying out of a psychopathological assessment in a situation of abstinence and stabilisation in this area. According to the referral report, a few weeks earlier, the family had requested outpatient psychiatric care for the patient because he presented behavioural alterations and some self-harming gestures in a clinical context compatible with an unidentified psychotic episode. Despite this, he was not taking any pharmacological treatment at the time of admission, although he had been prescribed 5 mg/d of Olanzapine in the previous weeks (he reported having abandoned the treatment due to sedation). So far he had not required psychiatric hospitalisation.

Initial psychopathological examination
Conscious, oriented, cooperative. Contains his anxiety with difficulty. He reports experiences of depersonalisation, perceptual distortions in the visual sphere and hallucinatory phenomena, both auditory and kinaesthetic. Hypochondriacal fears in relation to the latter: "I can't feel my lungs, maybe I don't have...". Experiences of external influence and control. Deliroid interpretation of harm in relation to conflictive relationships with former consumption partners. Affective and behavioural repercussions of the aforementioned psychotic symptomatology (low mood, irritability, isolation, abandonment of activities and social interaction). Mixed insomnia. No self/heteroaggressiveness, nor self-harmful ideation. Partial awareness of illness. His motivation for treatment was based solely on pressure from his family environment.

Evolution
During the first weeks after admission, the patient continued to be anxious; this, together with the abstinence symptoms and the lack of awareness of his illness, led him to consider interrupting the therapeutic process on several occasions. We worked with him on this aspect from a psychoeducational and supportive approach, with a good response. In this first phase, the symptoms were also managed pharmacologically, with risperidone up to a dose of 4 mg/d and bromacepam up to a dose of 4.5 mg/d, with no notable side effects. A week after admission, the psychotic symptoms decreased considerably, and the ideas of harm and sensory-perceptual disturbances were well criticised, until the symptoms disappeared after one month. Once detoxified (with negative urine for any substance of abuse) and with the disappearance of the symptoms he presented on admission, we observed a basic personality marked by traits of immaturity, confirmed by the Graphic Projective Tests, in which an infantilised graphism was evident, with signs of avoidance, withdrawal and traits of anxiety, but transmitting an empathic affective contact and without psychotic traits in his character structure; in the elaboration of stories his reasoning was concrete, as if he had not reached the abstraction capacity of adolescence. Neither clinical nor specific personality tests (MCMI-II) were suggestive of any diagnosable disorder in this area. Signs that were observed in this phase of withdrawal included generalised slowing down, subdepressive mood, low initiative, a tendency to avoid interpersonal contact for fear of external evaluation, verbalisations of feelings of emptiness, and difficulties in planning and organising the future; all of these experiences were associated by the patient himself with cravings and he acknowledged having experienced them chronically in recent years. All this symptomatology responded favourably to the use of SSRI antidepressants (escitalopram up to 20 mg/d), and the patient's craving for cannabis consumption was significantly alleviated and the episodes of craving that he had experienced in the previous phase disappeared. The antipsychotic medication was withdrawn and his clinical evolution was observed for a further 1.5 months in the CPD; none of the psychotic symptoms that he presented at the beginning of the admission reappeared and the improvement in both the cognitive and affective spheres became more evident. From the psychotherapeutic point of view, the individual approach focused on the reorganisation of the family subsystems, on achieving a reinterpretation of the betrayal he felt in adolescence, on reinstating the figure of the father and on investing the mother with some authority. The patient's return to academic training and the establishment of daily routines that would allow him to reorganise his day-to-day life in a more adaptive way were also supported with a view to his discharge. Group intervention was also carried out using the different approaches that form part of the therapeutic programme of the device: psychoeducation, relapse prevention, self-control of anxiety, training in social skills or problem solving, occupational therapy workshops, socio-cultural animation and free time management. Also as part of the programme and in order to carry out a progressive return to the usual environment, weekly outings were made from the centre together with the family members of reference, which passed without significant incidents, with negative toxicological controls for any substance of abuse. At discharge the patient was asymptomatic and with coherent plans for the future.

Differential diagnosis
The differential diagnosis made during his stay at the device was aimed at ruling out or confirming a possible first outbreak of Schizophrenia or, alternatively, an episode of Toxic Psychosis secondary to the continued consumption of significant amounts of cannabis. The picture of personal impairment or deficit that emerged before the consolidation of the skills necessary for maturation as an individual was completed could have been considered as premorbid personality and adjustment of a schizophrenic-type syndrome if it had not been shown to be reversible with abstinence. The aforementioned "deficiency" state could then be attributed to the well-known Amotivational Syndrome associated with chronic cannabis use.
Therefore, the diagnosis issued on discharge was (according to ICD-10 criteria):
Mental and behavioural disorders due to cannabis use (dependence): F 12.2
Mental and behavioural disorders due to cocaine use (abuse): F 14.1
Probable Toxic Psychosis, with symptomatology in remission at discharge: F 19.5
Discharge from this device was coordinated with his therapeutic team from the referring Drug Dependency Care Centre and with his Mental Health Centre of reference to ensure continuation of the clinical follow-up both in the area of consumption and psychopathology. As pharmacological treatment, maintenance was indicated with 1 cp of escitalopram 20 mg daily administered with breakfast.
