Female, 74 years old. Allergy to penicillins. Type 2 diabetes mellitus under treatment with oral antidiabetics with good control.
She came to the emergency department for right costal discomfort of 15 days of evolution. Initially treated with analgesia and later as a condensing respiratory infection (levofloxacin 500mg/24h O.V.V.). When he did not improve, he went to the emergency department of another hospital because of fever with shivering and chills. A CT scan of the chest ruled out pneumonia and a CT scan of the abdomen showed an abscessed lesion dependent on segment VII of the liver measuring 6-7cm in diameter with subsequent infiltration of paravertebral soft tissues, chest and abdominal wall. In view of these findings, she was referred to our hospital to assess drainage.
The patient denied travelling abroad, insect bites and drinking unsafe water. She lives with a dog.
Given that the patient maintained a fever and high RFA with deterioration of general condition, empirical treatment was started with Ciprofloxacin 400mg/8h and Metronidazole 500mg/8h IV.
With the data we had and after re-evaluating the abdominal CT images with the radiology department, the conclusion was reached that the collection was subphrenic; a subcutaneous drainage catheter was placed in the area with infiltration of thoracic soft tissue (drainage of the subphrenic collection was left for a second time) and samples were sent to the microbiology department for study (direct gram, bacilloscopy and various cultures were requested, including Actinomyces, Nocardia and Mycobacteria). On the same day as the drainage catheter was placed, Microbiology was notified due to suspicion in the gram image of possible Actinomyces (hyphae and hyphal bundles), so linezolid 600mg/12h IV was added to the treatment.
The clinical course was favourable, with disappearance of fever, normalisation of laboratory tests and improvement in general condition.
Finally, the presence of Actinomyces was confirmed by PCR, so antibiotic treatment was simplified and continued for 6 months.
The importance of this case lies in the fact that microorganisms that are uncommon in the aetiology of intra-abdominal abscesses should be considered in order to be able to request their culture and thus be able to treat them. In our patient the only risk factor for this type of infection is the immunosuppression of Diabetes Mellitus.
