A 41 year old patient came to the emergency department for 4 days presenting pain and progressive swelling on the outside of the left thigh after exercising on an exercise bike. He was diagnosed with a haematoma in the vastus quadriceps externus and treated with compressive bandaging, application of local cold and oral NSAID medication. Forty-eight hours later, the patient returned to the emergency department reporting a progression of the swelling and pain in the thigh. He had no fever. He had a history of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus of 8 years' duration. He also reports having suffered a pellet wound at the age of 16 in the affected area. Physical examination revealed swelling, redness and increased local temperature of the lateral aspect of the left thigh with a skin impasto over an area of approximately 20 x 10 cm and slight fluctuation in the distal part of this area. Mobility of the knee is severely limited by pain. The axillary temperature is 37,2o C. The haemogram shows a leucocytosis of 11.4 x 103/mm3, 89% neutrophils and 3% casts. Fibrinogen is 1139 mg/dL and ESR 69 mm/ 1 hour. Blood glucose is 329 mg/dL. Plain X-ray shows a pellet lodged in the distal third of the thigh, about 3 cm from the lateral cortex of the femur. An ultrasound scan of the soft tissues showed a heterogeneous hypoechoic area, with no vascular component, oval in appearance (10x5 cm), located inside the vastus externus of the quadriceps, with a more subcutaneous location in its most distal part. With the provisional diagnosis of intramuscular abscess of the vastus externus, it was decided to drain it surgically. Two limited incisions were made on the lateral aspect of the thigh through which the fascia lata was incised, evacuating abundant purulent content. Intramuscular communication was established between the two incisions, leaving two Penrose drains along the lesion after thorough washing. Gram staining of the evacuated material showed abundant Gram-positive cocci, so intravenous antibiotic treatment was started with amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 2 grams every 8 hours. After 48 hours, Streptococcus intermedius was isolated in the culture of three different samples of the drained material, and the same antibiotic treatment was maintained.

The evolution was favourable, with a clear improvement in pain in the first 24 hours. At 48 hours the patient was up and on the 6th postoperative day he was able to walk unaided. The ESR, fibrinogen and CRP values progressively decreased until completely normalised in the 4th week. The same antibiotic treatment was maintained during the 4 weeks of his hospital admission, with an additional 15 days of amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 875/125 mg orally. The patient required a short period of rehabilitation treatment that allowed him to regain full knee flexion at the end of the 6th week after surgery. At check-ups at 1 month, 3 months and 1 year the patient remained asymptomatic with full functional recovery.
