58-year-old woman with no known drug allergies, native of Morocco, who has lived in Spain for 3 years and has not travelled to her country since then. No other epidemiology of interest or medical or surgical history of note. He came to the emergency department for five days of non-thermometric fever and profuse sweating accompanied by abdominal pain in the epigastrium and right hypochondrium, continuous and not changeable with ingestion. She did not report vomiting, diarrhoea or other accompanying symptoms in the anamnesis by organs and apparatus.

Physical examination revealed a blood pressure of 125/70 mmHg, temperature of 38.2oC, heart rate of 96 systoles/min, and she was eupneic at rest. Other findings were strictly normal, except for a soft and depressible abdomen but with mild pain on superficial and deep palpation in the epigastrium and right hypochondrium, with sensitive hepatomegaly of three finger widths, negative Murphy's sign and no evidence of peritoneal irritation.

Basic laboratory tests performed in the ED showed haemoglobin 11 g/dL with normal MCV and MCH, leukocytes 17,700 cells/mm3 (80.2% neutrophils), C-reactive protein 276 mg/L and altered liver profile (total bilirubin 1.1 g/dL, GOT 96 U/L, GPT 99 U/L, GGT 106 U/L, FA 129 U/L) and normal urine sediment. Chest and abdominal X-ray with no pathological findings. Given the clinical and analytical findings, an abdominal ultrasound scan was requested in the emergency department showing a spheroid lesion measuring 89 x 58 mm in the left hepatic lobe, with poorly defined borders and heterogeneous echogenic content with hyperechogenic foci with posterior shadowing suggesting gas bubbles. In view of this result, the on-call radiologist decided to extend the study by performing a CT scan of the abdomen with contrast in order to better identify the lesion, which was diagnosed as a probable liver abscess, and the patient was admitted for further care, antibiotherapy and drainage of the lesion. Days after admission, a test was performed which provided us with the cause of the abscess.

Differential diagnosis
The finding of a liver abscess raises the question of differential diagnosis with different aetiologies, each with certain particularities:

1. Firstly, we must consider the possible routes by which the microbial inoculum has reached the liver parenchyma, which generates an initial immune response that becomes insufficient to control the infection, leading to the formation of the abscess. This inoculum can reach the liver via the hepatic artery (distant bacteraemia from another source), via the portal vein (due to infection in the territory that is taken up by this structure, as in the case of colitis, appendicitis or diverticulitis) or via the biliary tree (the most frequent cause, as in the case of ascending biliary infection from the digestive tract, obstructive pathology due to lithiasis, neoplasms or surgical or endoscopic manipulations of this pathway). Contiguous extension from neighbouring structures such as the stomach, duodenum or the ascending-transverse portion of the colon is also a possibility that, although less frequent, must be taken into account.

2. Microbiological isolation is highly variable, and may point to one or other aetiopathogeny. Most abscesses are polymicrobial, and the representation of anaerobes is assumed to be underestimated given the difficulty of their culture and characterisation in the laboratory. In our case, the presence of gas in the abscess prompted us to discuss with the interventional radiologist that the sample obtained from the puncture be inoculated directly from the liver puncture syringe, in addition to standard culture jars, into anaerobic jars in order to isolate this type of germ if present, and to make the microbiologist aware of our suspicion. Monomicrobial bacterial liver abscesses are often caused by enterobacteria such as Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae and are usually related to the biliary tract. The isolation of gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus spp. (especially those of the milleri group) is often due to bacteraemia from another source, and may be accompanied by infectious foci at other levels and mucocutaneous stigmata that oblige us to rule out the presence of infectious endocarditis. In our case, the culture of the abscess was positive with a polymicrobial flora with a significant presence of Granulicatella adiacens, a germ related to endocarditis, which could have led us to think of the presence of this entity, but the existence of polymicrobial flora in the abscess and the negative blood cultures, without previous antibiotherapy, led us to rule out this origin. We will also suspect the presence of haematogenous dissemination when we find multiple small abscesses instead of a solitary abscess, as was the case in our patient, making a haematogenous cause unlikely a priori. Another possibility could be a liver abscess due to Entamoeba histolytica, which is often preceded by diarrhoea with pathological products, abdominal pain and fever (dysentery). In addition, an epidemiological history of travel to an endemic area (usually developing countries) in the previous six months should raise suspicion of this aetiology. This abscess usually appears as a single abscess in 70-80% of cases, with the most frequent location being the posterior area of the right hepatic lobe due to the distribution of the portal circulation. Our patient, although from a developing country, had not visited him for three years and did not report diarrhoea, although this does not exclude cases that appear years later, but given the positive culture for pyogenic bacteria, it was not considered necessary to request serology for this amoeba or its investigation in stool. Nevertheless, empirical treatment was given with ceftriaxone and metronidazole instead of piperacillin/tazobactam (another possible empirical treatment for liver abscess, especially if the cause is nosocomial or in immunocompromised patients where P. aeruginosa may be responsible for the abscess) because initially the possibility of Entamoeba hystolitica (single abscess, possible epidemiology) was considered, which is generally sensitive to metronidazole. Other aetiologies in our environment that should be considered in liver abscesses based on epidemiology are miliary tuberculosis (Mycobacterium tuberculosis in the form of multiple lesions, although it should also be taken into account in abscesses where microbiological isolation has not been achieved in patients at risk for tuberculous infection), hydatid cysts (Echinococcus granulosus, often easily differentiated with imaging tests) in people in contact with livestock and dogs, and fungi such as Candida spp. (a rare aetiology that usually occurs in cases of polymicrobial abscesses where it can be found as an accompanying pathogen or more rarely in isolation in the immunocompromised). Finally, we must also take into account the possibility of neoplastic pathology. In our case, the presence of acute symptoms (5 days) accompanied by fever and no data of constitutional syndrome or other focality or suspicious findings in complementary tests (chest X-ray, abdominal CT scan, etc.) did not make us consider this possibility as the most likely.

Evolution
On admission, after drawing blood cultures, antibiotic treatment was started with ceftriaxone 2 g every 24 hours and metronidazole 500 mg every 6 hours, both administered intravenously.
On the third day of admission, the liver lesion was punctured without incident, with aspiration of the contents and insertion of a pig-tail catheter for drainage, obtaining purulent fluid from which samples were sent to Microbiology where, after 5 days, a polymicrobial flora formed by gram-positive cocci and gram-negative bacilli was isolated, with a greater presence of Granulicatella adiacens (6 cfu). On day +12 of antibiotic treatment and in view of the scant debit from the hepatic drainage catheter, a new ultrasound check-up was performed to assess its removal or repositioning. In this check-up, a reduction in the size of the abscess was observed (46 x 29 mm) and the radiologist was struck by the presence of a high-density, filiform foreign body with an elongated morphology, which, after reviewing both the ultrasound scan and the CT scan on admission, was already present from the beginning, and coronal and axial reconstructions were performed to better classify the foreign body. In view of this finding, the patient was re-interviewed and denied having been directly punctured by a sharp object in the past, and the possibility of accidental ingestion of a foreign body was assessed, although she did not remember having ingested any thorns and the General Surgery Department was contacted to assess the possibility of extraction.
The patient remained stable at all times, with fever defervescence 24 hours after starting antibiotic treatment, blood cultures were negative and during the surgery performed on +26 the surgeon observed the already collapsed abscess (no catheter debit in the 5 days prior to surgery) and the foreign body was extracted, coinciding in morphology and consistency with a fish bone of approximately 4.5 cms and also identified as such by Anatomical Pathology.
The patient had an uncomplicated postoperative period and on day +35 a new ultrasound scan was performed to assess the resolution of the abscess where there was no longer any evidence of a collection. She completed a total of 42 days of antibiotherapy from the start, the last week being at home (ciprofloxacin 750 mg/12 h. and metronidazole 500 mg/8 hours orally). The check-ups at one and three months were favourable from the clinical, analytical and imaging (ultrasound) point of view, with no recurrence of the process.

Final diagnosis
Polymicrobial liver abscess secondary to herringbone
