23 year old male who came to the consultation at the Centre for Comprehensive Care for Drug Addicts (CAID) with the intention of giving up cannabis use "because he wants to use his brain to its full extent" and does not want to be "stoned" all day. There is nothing to report in the family history.

Personal history
In early childhood he had major medical problems due to a malformation of the ureters with renal involvement, which resolved at the age of three but which forced him to need an external urine collection bag for months with check-ups and examinations that the patient remembers because of the pain it caused him. He was subsequently diagnosed with amblyopia, and eye patches and glasses were prescribed. The patient reports that he ended up memorising the letters and figures on the scanning devices because his aim was not to wear patches or glasses to school. He was eventually discharged for improvement at the age of 12 years. Currently the patient has poor vision in his left eye. School performance was very good until the age of 14 when behavioural and academic problems started to occur at school. The parents consulted the school psychologist who diagnosed that the patient had an IQ of 130 and that the problems in school performance were due to the fact that he was "very restless and rebellious". It was suggested that he should study Social
But the patient set out to prove that "he was good at studying" and obtained very good marks in the following year, but continued to behave inappropriately in the school environment. He finished secondary school late and did not want to prepare for the Selectividad. At the age of fourteen he had started using cannabis, had tried other substances, and was always socialising with boys older than him.

History of use
Between the ages of fourteen and fifteen he started using tobacco, cannabis and tried LSD and amphetamines. The use of the latter two substances only becomes occasional, some weekends, but he takes them until the age of nineteen or twenty. He tried cocaine at the age of sixteen, but he did not like it, he said that it was bad for him, although he did not report paranoid ideas when he used it, but he did say that it "made him very upset". He also tried alcohol at the age of fifteen, but did not have more than two or three drinks on the days he went out at weekends. The patient had requested treatment a year and a half ago, at the age of 21, also with the intention of abandoning the consumption that he considered was making it difficult for him to solve the problems that his girlfriend, also a cannabis user and ten years older than him, was causing him. He had gone to the CSM in his area due to the anxious symptoms he presented, and after additional tests, including an ECG, a diagnosis of possible hyperactivity was made, sertraline and topiramate were recommended and he was advised to stop using cannabis. The patient was critical of his consumption, stating that it made it difficult for him to make decisions and to cope with the events occurring in his environment. He managed to reduce his use to two or three joints a day and left treatment although he was aware that he had not achieved his goal of detoxification.

Current status
The patient lives with his parents and a sister five years younger than him. There is a good family relationship. He is working part-time to cover his expenses, he is preparing for his second university entrance exam, he is studying English without external support, he is preparing to become a driving school teacher, where he sees a professional outlet in the family environment and which would help him to finance his studies in health sciences. He has a new girlfriend, also older than him, who is not a drug user and from whom he wants to separate. At the time of the consultation, the patient shows great anxiety, emotional lability without anhedonia, insomnia and broken sleep, crises of anxiety, irritability and a feeling of lack of control in his actions and in expressing his thoughts adequately, which causes great social withdrawal and makes it impossible for him to concentrate on pleasant tasks, such as reading; he complains of alterations in his immediate memory. He perceives as anomalous the fact that he tries to perform many tasks that he does not finish because he is unable to concentrate for a long time, but reports that his performance improves if he changes tasks with a certain frequency. He does not present delusions of any kind, but he does present obsessive ideas that cause him great concern: "I don't think well". The patient is well aware that his problem is related to cannabis use, but he is unable to detoxify himself, going so far as to propose hospital admission to achieve his goal. He appears well-groomed and well-groomed, with slight motor agitation that disappears during the conversation. The language is correct, fluent, spontaneous, with a wide vocabulary, good command of the language and with cultured, unforced expressions; he shows great interest and is very interested in the appreciation of the interlocutor, maintaining intense eye contact and showing affection appropriate to the content of the conversation. He admits criticism, but refers that he does not tolerate incoherence well. He says that he has "almost always looked different", and that he does not know whether this is due to his personal characteristics or to his "way of thinking". Smoker of about eight to ten tobacco cigarettes. No other consumption, except for a very occasional consumption of no more than 50 grams of alcohol at weekends when he goes out and in order to mitigate the anxiety caused by social contact. He is critical of alcohol consumption and says that it sometimes worsens his mood as he sees no solution in drinking, and even perceives it as an attitude of self-aggressiveness.

An outpatient detoxification is proposed with the help of anxiolytics - 5mg. of alprazolam retard daily - and 30mg. of mirtazapine at night. The patient is able to reduce his consumption to two or three joints a day, which he smokes compulsively in the evening, and even goes without smoking cannabis for two or three days in a row. In any case, he reports great anxiety accompanied by a vegetative component, intense irritability, obsessive ideas, anorexia, altered intestinal transit, a feeling of dystrophy and an increase in tobacco consumption to more than double what he used to smoke. His insomnia improves and he reports "feeling more alert", but there is no abstinence as his anxiety is very intense in the afternoons, above all related to obsessive ideas concerning self-criticism of his behaviour and decision making, and he ends up smoking in an attempt to reduce his anxious symptoms and irritability, reporting that his anxiety improves but not the rest of his symptoms. Treatment with risperidone 1mg. at midday is proposed, and he manages to maintain abstinence more easily as his anxiety improves and it is easier for him to stop thinking and plan activities outside of consumption. The patient has not yet achieved abstinence for more than a month.
