Reason for consultation
Management of a family member with total dependency.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
A 51 year old male patient with no pathological history of interest came to the clinic to renew his wife's medication. We reviewed the patient's previous analyses and ascertained that he had leukocytosis with a left shift in two previous analyses and we indicated that he should repeat the analyses. The patient is completely asymptomatic at the present time. No B symptoms are present. In the last year he has had two episodes of gouty arthritis in the first phalanx of the right foot that have resolved with NSAIDs and colchicine.
In September 2015 she had a haemogram with 16650/μL leukocytes at the expense of neutrophils (13020/μL), in March 2016 they dropped to 12160/μL (neutrophils 8950/μL).

Physical examination: BP 120/80 sat 98% aa HR 70 FR 16 Normal oral cavity. No palpable submandibular or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy, neither in the axillary region nor in the inguinal region. Cardiopulmonary auscultation: rhythmic tones without murmurs, preserved vesicular murmur without added noises. Abdomen: soft, depressible, not painful on palpation, no masses or visceromegaly. Extremities normal with no oedema.

Complementary tests (June 2017):
- CBC: leukocytes 15555/μL (neutrophils 11150/μL and basophils 3600/μL), rest of normal formula.
- Biochemistry: uric acid 8, LDH 450. Rest within normal parameters.
- Peripheral blood smear: leukocytosis with deviation to the left: myelocytes 3% metamyelocytes 5% keys 8% basophilia proven 4%.
- Serology HCV negative, CMV negative, HIV negative, Parvovirus B19 IgG positive, IgM negative, HBsAg negative, anti-HBsAg negative.
- Antinuclear antibody negative
- Positive extractable nuclear antigen antibody
- Proteinogram: within normal values

Family and Community Approach
M is the husband and primary caregiver of another patient in our caseload aged 49 years who is in a vegetative state after suffering a severe subarachnoid haemorrhage 10 years ago. M is completely involved in his wife's care and always comes to our practice for care arrangements. My tutor and I regularly come to assess his wife at home. M is not a consultant and, despite the numerous occasions on which we have seen him for consultations regarding his wife, he hardly has any consultation sheets open. His daily concern and effort is in the impeccable care of his wife. He underestimates her state of health and his own problems. M is a compliant and cooperative patient but sometimes misses blood draws or appointments because he puts his wife's care before his own health. It is extremely difficult to deal with psychological issues regarding the recent diagnosis of his illness because for him it is not a problem, for him it would only be a problem if something were to happen to his wife, even though she has been disconnected from the environment for years.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, referential diagnosis)
Leukocytosis with sustained neutrophilia under study.
Psychosocial problems of the main caregiver of a highly dependent patient.

Action plan
Given the results obtained in the peripheral blood smear and the sustained leukocytosis, the patient was referred to the haematology and haemotherapy department.

Evolution
The haematology and haemotherapy consultation completed the study and the patient was diagnosed with Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myeloid leukaemia.
In November 2017, treatment with chemotherapy was started, prescribing Hydrea at a dose of 1000 mg alternating with 500 mg as, although he was asymptomatic, the leukocyte count had risen to 46480/μL with a neutrophilia of 84000/μL, and thrombocytosis of 404000/μL. In addition, allopurinol 300 mg at breakfast and abundant hydration were prescribed due to hyperuricaemia caused by cell lysis (uric acid 8). At the review appointment, the leukocyte formula remained at similar levels, so they modified the treatment and started nilotinib 300 mg every 12 hours.
The latter treatment was well tolerated and effective. The patient is currently asymptomatic and has a normal leukocyte count: leukocytes 8700/μL neutrophils 6500/μL and platelets 300000/μL.
