Male patient, white, 34 years old, with positive serology for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) since 2004, classified as AIDS in 2006 when he was diagnosed with pulmonary TB by smear microscopy. At the time, he was treated with the conventional treatment regimen (isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol) according to the National Tuberculosis Control Programme in Cuba, with adequate adherence. Subsequently, once treatment was completed, he was discharged, asymptomatic, with a favourable evolution and total cure. Since that year, he started antiretroviral therapy with stavudine/lamivudine/abacavir, which he maintained until 2012, when he switched to abacavir/lamivudine/lopinavir/ritonavir due to treatment failure.

In June 2014, he was admitted to the IPK Hospital, reporting fever of about two months' duration, intermittent, in the evening, accompanied by profuse sweating and significant weight loss. In addition, from the onset of fever, the patient had dysuria and was given several antibiotics (sulfaprim, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin) with no response to treatment. One week prior to admission, the patient reported passing ̈gas during urination ̈ and ̈orin from the rectum ̈.

During his admission, the described features of fever were noted, in addition to the presence of a recto-vesical fistula. Physical examination of the skin revealed an ulcerated lesion on the anterior left hemithorax, 3 mm in size, with drainage of purulent discharge about two months earlier.

The patient's wife had been hospitalised at the IPK since the same date for gynaecological manifestations. The wife died of disseminated mycobacteriosis as the main cause of death.

The patient underwent complementary studies on admission.

 

Imaging

Abdominal ultrasound: small periaortic and peripancreatic lymphadenopathies were observed, the largest measuring 18 x 13 mm. In addition, bladder with cellularity at the level of the bladder floor, irregular wall with thickening of 8.7 mm in an extension of 40 mm.

Computed axial tomography of the abdomen: bladder with irregular lower contour with a defect of fullness with a vegetating aspect.

X-ray of the pelvis: fracture line of the left lamina of L5.

Chest X-ray: no pleuropulmonary alterations.

 

Molecular testing

Molecular detection of M. tuberculosis in urine: Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) was extracted from three morning urines of the patient according to the methodology described by Sechi et al. Subsequently, PCR was performed using the M. tuberculosis IS 6110 insertion sequence.6

 

Bacteriological culture

Culture of acid-fast bacilli from skin lesions in Lowenstein-Jensen medium: identification of M. tuberculosis with coding.

With these elements, in July 2014, treatment for extrapulmonary TB (TBGU) was initiated. In addition, a change of antiretroviral treatment with truvada/efavirenz was performed.

In September 2014, the patient was re-evaluated and found to be afebrile, denying urinary symptoms, no urine expulsion from the rectum or discharge from the skin, with weight gain and a favourable clinical course. He continues with the first phase of anti-TB treatment. 
