A 53-year-old Bolivian man, with no previous history, presented with 3 weeks of daily fever and profuse sweating, weakness and myalgia in the lower limbs. He had lived in Spain for 15 years and reported a 10-day trip to a Bolivian city three months earlier. No history of insect bites, no drug abuse or risky sexual relations. On physical examination, To 37.6oC, haemodynamically stable, Sat O2 95% on room air. Limited movement of the lower limbs due to myalgias. The rest of the physical examination was normal. Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis (17540 / μL) with neutrophilia (14630 / μL), elevated CRP (248.2 mg), elevated liver enzymes with dissociated cholestasis (AST 90U/L, ALT 110 U/L, FA 318 U/L, GGT 407 U/L), normal CK levels with elevated aldolase (26 U / l) and urine sediment with granular casts and 15-25 leukocytes/field. All other parameters were normal. CT scan of the neck, chest and abdomen showed mural thickening of the infrarenal aorta suggestive of periaortitis. Inflammatory activity was confirmed with PET-CT, associating irregular hyperenhancement in the lower extremities. Indirect immunofluorescence revealed p-ANCA positivity (1: 1280), (MPO-ANCA> 134 IU/ml). Trypanosoma Cruzi serology was also positive for IgG (1/512). The diagnosis of chronic Chagas disease was made after confirming the presence of megacolon by barium enema. No upper gastrointestinal or cardiac involvement was found after barium oesophagram and echocardiography. EMG was performed, with no signs of myopathy, but lower limb MRI showed interfascial oedema and T2 hyperintensity suggesting diffuse inflammation. Muscle biopsies were obtained and showed perimysial small vessel vasculitis. These findings were consistent with an atypical presentation of microscopic polyangiitis with muscle involvement, probable renal and large vessel involvement. The patient was treated with Benznidazole 5mg/kg per day (60 days), 3 boluses of methylprednisolone 250 mg. Subsequently prednisone 1mg/kg/day with progressive dose reduction and Rituximab 375mg/m2 weekly (4 weeks) with complete resolution of myalgias, fever, normalisation of transaminases and urine sediment, except for proteinuria. After the third dose of Rituximab, he developed haemoptysis, so urgent bronchoscopy with BAL and transbronchial biopsy was performed, showing purulent exudates but no haematic debris. The biopsy ruled out capillaritis but several sputum and BAL cultures were positive for Aspergillus fumigatus, so he was treated with Voriconazole 200 mg/12 h (12 weeks), with complete resolution of the respiratory symptoms. The patient was discharged on oral prednisone and will receive maintenance therapy with Rituximab.
