A 60-year-old male patient consulted for severe pain, decreased visual acuity and redness in the left eye for a week. His family doctor indicated topical anti-inflammatory treatment and requested an assessment by the Ophthalmology Department. A diagnosis of acute left unilateral panuveitis was made, for which treatment with prednisone 60 mg/day was indicated. Given the lack of clinical improvement, an assessment by Internal Medicine was requested for a diagnostic study.

As pathological history, the patient had presented a case of facial herpes zoster 15 days prior to the current episode, which he treated with Famciclovir, with adequate resolution. The patient was a smoker, single, with occasional risky sexual relations, and lived in a rural environment. In the guided anamnesis, he had a dry cough of several months' evolution together with mechanical back pain of years of evolution, hyporexia and loss of about 2 kg of weight in the previous 2 months, without mentioning any other relevant symptoms. Ophthalmological examination revealed very intense Tyndall phenomenon without hypopyon, mild conjunctival hyperemia and iris rubeosis, IOP 18 mmHg. In the general physical examination: Haemodynamic stability, afebrile. Absence of pathological signs in the neck, normal temporal arteries. Scattered rhonchi in both hemithorax, rest of the RCA normal. Slight pain on palpation over the right hypochondrium without hepatomegaly or other significant findings. The rest of the physical examination was normal.

The aetiological study of unilateral uveitis in this patient requires screening for local or systemic infectious diseases and inflammatory diseases. Paranoplastic diseases are less likely and it should not be forgotten that up to 30% of uveitis (according to published series) are idiopathic. The ophthalmological evolution was torpid, with progressive erythema and left orbital swelling, and an increase in left IOP. The patient also presented respiratory worsening, with persistent dry cough and dyspnoea on minimal effort, for which parenteral antibiotic treatment (ceftriaxone) and ocular antihypertensive treatment was started and the patient was admitted to hospital. The differential diagnosis considered: primary ophthalmological infections (including viruses (herpes, HIV, CMV) and toxoplasma) and systemic infections (TB, lues and others), inflammatory diseases (sarcoidosis, systemic vasculitis) and paraneoplastic diseases due to solid T. (bronchopulmonary) or haematological (lymphoma).


Complementary tests:
The haemogram was normal. The biochemistry showed CRP 11 mg/dL, with the rest of the parameters being normal. ESR 16 mm 1h. Serology IgG CMV, negative viral load, positive IgG VVZ, positive HLA B51, normal or negative serology for HBV, HCV, Toxoplasma, HIV, lues, Borrelia, intradermal tuberculin test (mantoux with booster), ANA, HLA B27. An abdominal ultrasound was performed, which revealed multiple small hypodense lesions compatible with cysts. A CT scan of the chest and abdomen showed irregular alveolar pseudonodular foci measuring 20x17 mm and 10x19 mm in the lower lobe of the left lung and confirmed the ultrasound findings in the liver. Given the radiological findings, the study was continued to rule out pulmonary TB and vasculitis. Interferon gamma (Igra) analysis was performed, which was negative, in addition to bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage, the microbiological study of which showed no microorganisms (including mycobacteria). A cytological study was also performed, which was negative for malignant cells. ANCAs negative.

Evolution:
Despite antibiotic therapy and IOP control, the patient worsened clinically, with intense retroocular pain. A CT scan of the orbit showed thickening of the LA sclera, hyperdense images in the posterior pole within the vitreous humour, increased retroorbital fat and a punctate haemorrhage at the insertion point of the optic nerve, as well as a doubtful image of retroorbital cellulitis.

Vitrectomy was indicated for further diagnostic work-up. Vitrectomy is a technique not free of surgical risks, indicated to find a definitive diagnosis in patients with atypical manifestations, failure of empirical therapies or suspected underlying non-paraneoplastic processoneoplasm, especially in those patients with posterior involvement of the uvea. Samples were sent for anatomo-pathological study, in which there were no significant findings, and microbiological study. After several days we were informed of the growth of Nocardia otitiscaviarum. in the vitreous humour resistant to Imipenem, Tetracyclines, Clarithromycin, Amoxicillin, Cefotaxime and sensitive to TMP-SMX. The patient started treatment with TMP-SMX, achieving a progressive clinical, ophthalmological and respiratory improvement. After 2 months, the ocular inflammation and the hepatic and pulmonary lesions disappeared in control imaging tests.
