A 61-year-old patient with the following personal history: infiltrating epidermoid carcinoma of the tonsil treated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy, currently free of disease, stroke without sequelae, mild carotid stenosis and active drinker. He came to the emergency department for diffuse abdominal pain and general malaise accompanied by a cough with rusty secretions of several days' duration. No fever or dysthermic sensation was reported. 
Examination: BP: 70/40 mmHg, HR: 110 bpm, SpO2: 93% (FiO2 0.6), afebrile; poor general condition, cutaneomucous pallor with signs of poor distal perfusion; septic mouth with dental caries and bacterial plaque on the gums. Tachypnoea at rest, with shallow breathing with crackles in the right hemithorax and decreased vesicular murmur in the left base. Abdomen with no pathological findings despite being the initial reason for consultation. The rest of the examination was unremarkable. The electrocardiogram showed generalised concave ST elevation.
In view of these findings and the poor haemodynamic improvement despite the administration of goal-guided fluid therapy, admission to the ICU for stabilisation was decided. A central venous line was cannulated and vasoactive therapy was started with noradrenaline at a dose of 0.04 ug/kg/min. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed showing severe pericardial effusion with diastolic collapse of the right ventricle, compatible with tamponade.

Differential diagnosis
Generalised ST elevation of concave morphology, accompanied by infectious symptoms, should alert us to the presence of possible pericarditis. These ECG alterations together with the presence of pericardial effusion establish the diagnosis of pericarditis by fulfilling two of the four criteria proposed by the guidelines1 . Non-infectious aetiologies of pericarditis include autoimmune diseases, inflammatory diseases, metabolic disorders, thoracic trauma, drugs and neoplasms, among the most frequent. The latter is important to take into consideration in our patient, in the context of possible metastatic disease, given the history of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma. However, the rest of the a priori aetiologies could be ruled out in view of the clinical manifestations and the absence of personal and pharmacological antecedents to support them.
The presence of infectious respiratory symptoms, as the most striking finding, associated with haemodynamic instability, makes us lean towards the group of infectious aetiologies. Within this group we highlight:
- Viruses: Coxsackie virus B is known as the most common cause in the literature, especially in the paediatric population. However, according to the latest series, in adults, cytomegalovirus, herpes virus and HIV should be considered as the most common aetiologies2. Viruses are often associated with mild pericardial effusions, including HIV in the current era of new antiretroviral therapies. In addition, most of them have characteristic additional symptoms/signs (skin rashes, alterations in liver markers in hepatotropic viruses, gastrointestinal symptoms, etc.), which could point to a specific aetiology.
- Bacteria: Mycobacterium tuberculosis is one of the most frequent pathogens in this group. Although it accounts for only 4% of all cases of pericarditis in developed countries, Spain is one of the countries with the highest incidence of tuberculosis in Europe. This, together with the high mortality that pericardial involvement by this microorganism would entail (25% at 6 months in the absence of HIV co-infection), makes it necessary to take it into consideration in the differential diagnosis. Other less common bacteria (<1% of cases) causing purulent pericarditis include Staphylococcus sp, S. pneumoniae, Streptococcus sp and Haemophilus sp. They usually present as an acute illness characterised by high fever, present in most patients, tachycardia, cough and chest pain (regardless of the pathogen involved or the pathogenesis of the infection). Patients are usually severely ill, although they may have an initially indolent course. Other pathogens are associated with more representative data that support the diagnosis, as is the case of cardiac involvement by Borrelia burgdorferi, in which case we would characteristically find alterations of the cardiac conduction system as an accompanying manifestation of pericarditis. In recurrent or prolonged pericarditis, Coxiella burnetii infection should be taken into account in the differential diagnosis, as it can characteristically present chronically as well as acutely.
- Fungi: Aspergillus sp, Candida sp, among others, usually occur in severely immunosuppressed patients and are very rare even in this context.
- Parasites: practically exceptional, to be taken into account depending on the patient's epidemiology.

Evolution
Parasternal pericardiocentesis was performed and a total of 1450 ml of purulent material came out, and samples were collected for pathological anatomy, microbiology and clinical analysis. In view of these findings, after drawing blood and urine cultures, Meropenem 1 gram/8 hours + linezolid 600 mg/12 hours was started, taking into account the clinical instability with little improvement to the measures initially established.
After these measures, he improved clinically and haemodynamically in the following hours, allowing the reduction of vasoactive therapy. The results of the laboratory tests taken in the emergency department were received, highlighting: a) Biochemistry: CRP 312.1 mg/L, Procalcitonin 35.86 ng/mL, NT-proBNP 12,620 pg/mL, Troponin I (high sensitivity) 50.2 pg/mL, creatinine 2.03 mg/dL, electrolytes without significant alterations; b) Haemocytes: 31,900 leukocytes/μL with 91.5% neutrophils, haemoglobin 8. 8 g/dL, 546,000 platelets/μL; c) Coagulation: prothrombin time 56.4%, INR 1.42, TPTA 38.2s and fibrinogen 538.2 mg/ dL; e) Venous blood gases: pH 7.22 pCO2 59 HCO3 24. 1 lactic acid 7.5; f) Pericardial fluid: 300,000 red blood cells/μL, 92,360 leukocytes/μL (polymorphonuclear 90%; mononuclear 10%), glucose 0 mg/dL, total protein 4.2 g/dL. Chest X-ray showed evidence of cardiomegaly with no masses or condensation in the lung parenchyma. These findings supported the diagnosis of septic shock with purulent pericarditis.
After 21 hours of admission to the ICU, and despite initial improvement, the patient presented cardiorespiratory arrest in asystole after extreme bradycardia. Advanced life support manoeuvres were started and control echocardiography was performed during the same, which ruled out new tamponade and post-puncture complications, without showing blood-tinged drainage or greater purulent debit. The patient finally died.
Subsequently, blood cultures isolated multisensitive Streptococcus constellatus and the pericardial fluid culture was negative. However, the anatomopathological results of the fluid show abundant polymorphous leukocytes, mainly mature-looking lymphocytes and neutrophils, with no signs of malignancy, which would support the diagnosis of bacterial aetiology of the process.

Final diagnosis
Purulent pericarditis probably secondary to Streptococcus constellatus.
