Reason for consultation
The patient came to the primary care clinic approximately one month ago with symptoms characterised by paraesthesia, dysesthesia and muscle spasm from the knees to the distal level of the lower limbs, especially in the calf muscles.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests)
51-year-old man with a personal history of chronic low back pain, venous insufficiency in the lower limbs, smoker of 1 pack/day, drinker of 1 - 2 glasses of wine/day, no cardiovascular risk factors, anxious-depressive syndrome and worker in a printing shop with inks and solvents. As usual treatment he takes Sertraline 100mg/24h and Omeprazole 20mg/24h.
He consulted for symptoms of paresthesia, dysesthesia and muscle cramps in the lower limbs, predominantly in the calf muscles, which had been going on for a month. In successive consultations from primary care, the symptoms have progressed and have extended to the median nerve territory of the left hand despite analgesic and adjuvant treatment.

Systematic examination
Good general condition, eupneic at rest, normohydrated and normal colour, conscious, oriented and cooperative.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation: rhythmic tones without murmurs, friction or extratones. Bladder murmur preserved without pathological sounds.
Abdomen: soft and depressible without palpation of masses or megaliths. Not painful on palpation. No peritoneal defence.
Neurological examination: isochoric pupils normoreactive, no alteration of cranial nerves, no loss of strength or tone, paraesthesia and increased sensitivity to pain in both lower limbs. No dysmetria. Romberg negative. Normal gait.
Limbs: Lassegue negative and discrete livedo reticularis with cutaneous atrophy in the lower limbs, as evidence of venous insufficiency. Pulses preserved. Abolished ROT here and exalted left styloradialis, the rest normal.

Complementary tests
Primary care carried out analytical tests with:
Normal haemogram.
Biochemistry with slight alteration of GGT (88 U/L) and CPK (281 mcg/L). Ions within the normal range.
Syphilis serology negative.
B12 and folic acid within normal.
Thyroid hormones normal.
A lumbar level X-ray was also performed, where no pathological images were observed.

Given the persistence of the symptoms and the poor response to hygienic-dietary measures, analgesia and adjuvants, it was decided to refer the case to the specialist for further analysis and complementary tests.
In the analysis we found:
Normal haemogram.
Biochemistry: Lead 3.5 mcg/dL (N < 40mcg/dL), Copper 135mg/L (N 70 - 140), Creatinine and urea within normal range, normal ions, slight increase in GOT, GLP and GGT, LDH 182 U/L (135 - 225U/L), ECA 50 U/L (8 - 52 U/L), Protein 6. 8 g/dL (6.6 - 8.7 g/dL), albumin 4.6 g/dL (3.4 - 4.8 g/dL), CRP 0.2 mg/dL (0 - 0.5 mg/dL), antistreptolysin O 78 U/mL (0 - 200U/mL), RF 67.8 U/mL (0 - 14 U/mL), C4 and C3c normal.
24H urine: Creatinine, calcium, phosphate and urate within normal range. Porphyrins normal.
Immunology:
Immunofixation: monoclonal component in normal serum.
Autoimmunity: IgA, IgM, IgG, ANA, anti-MPO, anti-PR3, anti-glomerular basement membrane negative. HCV RNA viral load 2450000 (Positive 1b).
Serology: (Anti - HBc) core HB negative, Ac against HCV positive, Ac against HIV 1/2 negative.
Proteinogram: total proteins, albumin, globulins within normal range.
An ENG - EMG of the limbs was also performed, showing moderate axonal sensory-motor polyneuropathy with sensory predominance in the lower limbs, and an MRI of the skull and lumbar spine showed no pathological findings.
With the diagnosis of HCV liver disease, treatment was started with interferon and Ribavirin. Despite the correct treatment and after its completion, the patient continued to present the same clinical symptoms, even a worsening of the symptoms. Given the poor evolution, other different diagnoses were considered and it was then that we realised that our patient had been wearing amalgam fillings for many years, so we extended the analytical study again with another heavy metal not previously considered, mercury. Total mercury in blood was found to be 22 mcg/L (N < 10 mcg/L), and total mercury in urine was found to be 2 mcg/g creatinine (N < 30mcg/L).

In view of these new findings, treatment was started with D - penicillamine 250mg/6h and removal of amalgam dental prostheses. In successive analytical controls the level of mercury in the blood decreased and we found a significant clinical improvement.

Family and community approach
Independent for ABVD. Married, childless and of average socio-economic level. He has a job in a printing company.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Diagnosis: chronic mercury poisoning and HCV liver disease.

Differential diagnosis: venous insufficiency, anaemia, enolic or other toxic causes (occupational, amalgam fillings...), ionic alterations, differential diagnosis of polyneuropathy (DM, porphyrias...), multiple sclerosis or other cerebral alterations, syphilis, radiculopathy or entrapment neuropathy, thyroid alterations.

Action plan and evolution
Due to the treatment with D - Penicillamine, the patient showed progressive improvement, with less cramps, improvement of the sensitivity of the fingertips and toes, the alternation between hyperalgesia - previous hypoalgesia has normalised, only a slight numbness persists. Subsequently, during check-ups at the doctor's office, the symptoms have increased in outbreaks, and control analyses have revealed a new increase in the level of mercury, for which reason treatment with D-Penicillinamine has had to be resumed on several occasions. In addition, after treatment with Interferon and Ribavirin, the viral load was confirmed as negative.
