On 24/01/2018, a 50-year-old female patient, Argentinean, residing in El Tunal, department of Metan, province of Salta, was admitted to the Health Institution of Metan for a febrile condition with generalised arthralgias, abdominal pain and diarrhoea of 5 days' evolution.

The following day she was referred to the "Hospital Dr. Joaquín Castellanos" in General Güemes for evaluation by the medical surgery service. On admission, samples were taken for culture of the most frequent pathogens.

At 48h the patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit with a presumptive diagnosis of sepsis with abdominal focus, urinary tract infection and acute pancreatitis. Empirical treatment with omeprazole, ciprofloxacin, sodium heparin, oxygen, ketorolac was applied. At the evening examination the patient was found to be lucid, but with hypoventilation. A chest X-ray was requested, which showed a left basal infiltrate, and a CT scan showed free lung bases, liver, spleen, pancreas, adrenal glands and kidneys preserved, no retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy, intestinal loops not distended, no evidence of free fluid in the peritoneal cavity. The condition worsened rapidly with tachypnoea, hypotension requiring vasopressors, acrocyanosis in the upper limbs and lividity-like lesions in the lower limbs. The patient required mechanical ventilation, antibiotic treatment with ciprofloxacin was discontinued and replaced by ampicillin-sulbactam and vancomycin.

After exhaustive questioning of family members, they reported the removal of a tick from the left lumbar region 3 days prior to the onset of symptoms.

Given the history collected, serum samples were taken and diagnostic tests were requested for dengue (RT-PCR, non-structural antigen -NS1-, IgM Mac ELISA), chikungunya (real-time PCR), hantavirus (IgM Mac ELISA) and rickettsiosis (indirect immunofluorescence). The determination of IgG and IgM specific for Rickettsia spp. was performed using the commercial kit Indirect Immunofluorescence (Focus Diagnostics) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Recent infection was considered as the detection of IgM titres≥1:64 and IgG≥1:256.

Additionally, skin biopsies of the purpuric rash and left lower limb region were taken for detection of Rickettsia spp. by PCR. Tissue samples were processed with the commercial DNeasy Blood & Tissue QIAGEN kit according to the manufacturer's instructions. Partial amplification of the following genes was performed: gltA, ompA, ompB, htrD and the 23S-5S rRNA intergenic spacer, according to the protocol described8. The amplification products obtained from the 23S-5S rRNA, ompA and ompB genes were sequenced with the Big Dye Terminator v 3.1 Cycle sequencing kit (Applied Biosystems) and analysed on the ABI 377 Genetic Analyzer sequencer (PE Applied Biosystems). The sequences obtained were compared with those deposited in GenBank (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank/) with the BLASTN tool, Nucleotide collection (nr/nt) database [National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI)].

Samples for diagnosis of rickettsiosis were referred to the Special Bacteriology Service, INEI-ANLIS "Carlos G. Malbrán", CABA and the remaining samples to the Milagro Viejo Hospital, Salta. The patient was preventively covered with doxycycline 200mg/12h. Results: dengue-negative; chikungunya-negative; hantavirus-negative; rickettsiosis-IgG non-reactive (<1/64); IgM non-reactive (<1/64).

After 72h of hospitalisation, the patient suffered cardiorespiratory arrest and died. Serial blood and urine cultures were negative after 6 days of incubation.

20 days after the onset of symptoms, a confirmatory diagnosis was obtained by amplification and partial sequencing of the ompB and ompA genes. The sequences obtained showed 99% identity with strains available in GenBank of R. rickettsii, ompB and ompA genes, accession numbers: CP018914.1, CP018913.1, CP006010.1 and MF988095.1, CP018914.1, CP018913.1 respectively).
