16 year old female, who came "tricked" by her family for assessment of disorganised behaviour at home and behavioural disorders (verbal and/or physical aggression towards parents). The parents had contacted me a week before to report these disorders and to see how they could manage the situation. The parents had been reporting behavioural disorders for more or less a year, coinciding with the daughter's return home to resume her studies in her place of residence (she had previously attended a boarding school in another city, given her poor academic performance). They had noticed that, on some weekends when the girl was at home, she displayed similar behaviours, albeit to a lesser degree. The initial defiant behaviours had gradually transformed into hostile behaviours in response to any normative suggestion, moving on to aggressive attitudes, first verbally, then physically towards objects, ending with aggression towards the mother, who was the one who spent the most time at home. The parents had detected cannabis use that they could not quantify 2 or 3 months earlier, after talking to their daughter's friends and, when they checked with her, she vaguely told them that she had been using cannabis for "1 or 2 years, only at weekends". They suggested she see a psychiatrist and she agreed. She went to the first appointment and the psychiatrist prescribed treatment with fluoxetine, 20 mg/day, with check-ups every 15 days. The parents do not perceive any improvement and the girl decides to abandon the treatment at the third session. The parents then took her to Proyecto Hombre, where she went regularly every 15 days and where weekly urine tests detected her use of cannabis and sporadic use of amphetamines (once a month). She is suggested to see a psychiatrist as her behavioural disorders are getting worse (after a month or so of improvement) and she does not stop using.

At the first consultation, the patient presented a negative attitude, irritability, sleep and schedule disturbances and ideas of death. She did not present or had not presented psychotic symptoms (some delirious ideas in relation to high consumption in the past) and was verbose, with a slight flight of ideas and expansive mood. She was very aggressive towards the parents' "protectionist" attitude, especially towards the mother. She acknowledges cannabis use since the age of 12 (when she was admitted to the boarding school), with initial weekend use, increasing to daily use at the age of 13, and before she returned home she consumed 6-8 times a day. She justifies her use as a way of overcoming her "fat complex". She admits to sporadic use of amphetamines in connection with village festivals and music concerts. The mother is a very anxious and controlling woman; the father is a quiet man, overwhelmed by the daughter's situation and the mother's attitude. No first or second degree family history. There is an older brother in the family, with whom the patient reports a good relationship, although he has now distanced himself from her because of her attitude at home. The patient agrees to follow pharmacological treatment and to continue with Proyecto Hombre, with whom she is very happy. She was prescribed haloperidol up to 4.5 mg/day, but due to the side effects she was switched to ziprasidone (120 mg/day). This treatment was maintained for two months, with total remission. Two positive consumptions were detected, which coincided with an increase in symptoms. Suddenly, in the course of a week (early spring), she developed a depressive episode, with symptoms of apathy, sleep and appetite disorders, social isolation, concentration disorders, moderate anxiety and ideas of death and suicide. Ziprasidone was replaced by paroxetine (20 mg/day), with partial response, so venlafaxine 75 mg/day was added. The condition remitted completely and behaviour normalised, so treatment was reduced to venlafaxine 37.5 mg/day. No substance use was detected for three months. In November of that year, the patient resumed cannabis use "to calm her anxiety" about exams at the institute. A similar picture to the initial one appeared, with manifest symptoms and she started again with treatment with neuroleptics, with symptom control. Subsequently she changed therapist.
