A 14-year-old male patient with no history of morbidity.

He consulted the emergency department for symptoms of intermittent right-sided omalgia of seven days' evolution associated with cervical stiffness and pain. In the last three days, inspiratory stop and intermittent febrile sensation were added. A PA-L chest X-ray was requested.

Given the clinical picture and the findings on the X-ray, it was decided to perform a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest.

Oblique coronal reconstruction in the axis of the prevertebral musculature. CT scan of the neck in a bony window and sagittal reconstruction.

The patient is hospitalised and a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the neck is requested for better characterisation. STIR sequence. Axial, sagittal and coronal slices, HASTE sequence, axial slice.

T1-echo gradient-echo sequence with fat saturation and contrast (T1 GRE ft-sat c+), axial slices.

STIR sequence, coronal section and T1 GRE fat sat c+, coronal section. During hospitalisation a blood culture a positive for Staphylococcus is obtained.

Diagnosis:
Acute osteomyelitis of the right first rib and pyomyositis of the right long neck muscle. Secondary ipsilateral pleural thickening and effusion.


AP-L chest X-ray. Mild right pleural effusion and right apical image suggestive of pleural thickening.

Axial CT scan of the thorax with soft tissue window. They confirm the mild right pleural effusion and ipsilateral apical pleural thickening.

CT scan of the neck with soft tissue window. Rounded hypodense image that enhances peripherally with the contrast medium in the thickness of the prevertebral musculature, in a right parasagittal situation.

Oblique coronal reconstruction in the axis of the prevertebral musculature. Hypodense lesion, extending through the right prevertebral musculature.

Axial section and sagittal reconstruction of neck CT scan in bony window. Normal bone structure, without pathological findings.

STIR sequence, axial section.

Sagittal and coronal. Increased signal of the bone marrow of the first rib and adjacent soft tissues suggestive of inflammatory changes.

HASTE sequence, axial view. A high signal lesion is confirmed in the thickness of the right long neck muscle, suggestive of a collection.


T1 GRE fat-sat c+ sequence, axial sections. Contrast enhancement of the soft tissues adjacent to the first rib and peripherally in the ring of an inflammatory collection in the thickness of the right long neck muscle.

 
The pyomyositis in this case is centred in the inferior oblique fascicle, giving the intramuscular abscess arrangement. It is also interesting that this explains the ipsilateral pleural thickening and effusion, as this muscle, in addition to the direct effect of the costal osteomyelitis, probably served as a "bridge" between the neck and the thorax, causing the pleural thickening and effusion reactive to the inflammation. 

CT reconstruction, coronal oblique in the axis of the prevertebral musculature, STIR sequence, coronal slice, T1 GRE fat-sat c+ sequence, coronal slice and anatomical illustration of the prevertebral musculature, the blue circle indicates the left inferior oblique fascicle. The pyomyositis arrangement of the right long neck muscle can be seen, probably in its inferior oblique fascicle.
