Anamnesis
62-year-old male, no known drug allergies, with a personal history of hypertension, dyslipidaemia, ex-smoker of a packet a day until the age of 30, occasional drinker (weekends), no other substance consumption; he had undergone appendectomy and inguinal herniorrhaphy; no personal family history of known vascular pathology. Under treatment with lisinopril 10 mg and acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg every 24 hours. He went to the emergency department for two episodes in the last 48 hours, while at home watching television, he began to ask his wife with a strange look on his face, "What time is it? He asked the same question every minute for 20 minutes and other questions about the activities they had carried out that same day, showing confusion and strangeness for approximately one hour. After each answer, the patient nodded, apparently understanding and assimilating the answer, after which he repeated the same question a few minutes later. His wife, who initially thought he was joking, noticed the problem with his insistence on the question with the same intonation and impassivity of her husband when he asked her again and his gesture of surprise at the situation, when she told him that she had just answered the question. The episode subsided in about an hour. The patient had absolutely no recollection of what had happened. The following day a similar episode occurred, and they went to the emergency department. At no time did his companion report any cranial trauma, alteration of the level of consciousness, neurological focality, symptoms suggestive of epilepsy, headache or other alterations.

Physical examination
General and neurological examinations were normal. The patient was normotensive, eupneic, afebrile, conscious, fully alert and oriented in all three spheres. Cranial nerves normal, strength, reflexes, sensitivity and metrics preserved and symmetrical, normal cardiopulmonary auscultation without cardiac or carotid murmurs. A Minimental Exam Test was performed in the ED, with a score of 30/30.

Complementary tests
- Blood analysis with haemogram, complete coagulation including thrombophilia profile, biochemistry, ferric, lipid, thyroid profile, general autoimmunity markers and proteinogram; all results were normal.
- Serology for neurotropic virus and lupus negative.
- 24-hour electrocardiogram and echocardiography detected supraventricular extrasystoles with no other findings. Normal electroencephalographic study.
- CT scan with no vascular lesions or direct or indirect signs of acute ischaemia, only hyperintensity of the intracranial vasculature suggestive of atheromatosis.
- MRI and angio-MRI of the chest and angio-MRI of the supra-aortic trunks and Willis polygon 2 days after the episode, showing a punctate lesion in the right anterior cingulate cortex, hypointense in T1, hyperintense in T2 and T2 FLAIR with marked restriction in high diffusion values (B1000), suggestive of acute ischaemic lesion. In addition, there were several hyperintense lesions in T2 and T2 FLAIR of similar intensity and size to the previous one and suggestive of evolved ischaemic lesions in the periventricular white matter, semioval centres and other territories. The hippocampal regions showed no diffusion restriction or ischaemic lesions.
Punctate lesion in the right cingulate cortex with restriction in high diffusion values (B1000). Punctate lesion in the right cingulate cortex hyperintense on T2 FLAIR.

Diagnosis
Transient global amnesia secondary to acute ischaemic stroke in the right anterior cingulate cortex of probable atheromatous aetiology.

Treatment
Clopidogrel and atorvastatin at standard doses.

Evolution
The patient did not suffer any incidence or similar episodes during his admission. In subsequent reviews after one month the patient reported no further episodes.
