An 82-year-old woman came to the emergency department for a decrease in VA in the right eye lasting a month and a half, with no pain or other accompanying ocular or systemic symptoms.
Her personal history included: metabolic syndrome, hypothyroidism secondary to thyroidectomy for a benign nodule, cataract surgery in the AO.
Examination showed an improved corrected VA of 20/32 in the right eye and hand movement in the left eye. There was no reactive afferent pupillary defect. There is mild hyperemia in the LA with a Tyndall of 1+ and an intraocular pressure of 20 mmHg in the AO. In the FO of the OI, a dense and mobile vitreous detachment (DVP) and extensive retinal haemorrhages are observed over a whitish-yellowish lesion with an infiltrative appearance. A 10 MHz ocular ultrasound was performed, showing the presence of a complete PVD and hyperechogenic signs in the vitreous space. OCT of the OI could not be performed due to media opacity. Posterior uveitis of undetermined origin was diagnosed and treated with topical corticosteroid and cyclopentolate. Fluorescein angiography of poor quality was performed due to vitreous turbidity, in which diffuse hyperfluorescence was detected, greater in arcades and papilla.

A blood test was performed with biochemistry, haemogram and serology to rule out syphilis, CMV, Epstein-Barr, toxoplasma and HIV, which was negative for all of them, except for IgG+ for toxoplasma. A chest X-ray was requested, which was normal. Vitreous humour was extracted for viral study and CMF, which were negative. Given the opacity of the media and the lack of response to topical treatment, it was decided to perform a diagnostic pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) 23 G to extract samples for microbiological analysis. At the end of the surgery, diffuse subretinal infiltrates were observed, not only peripapillary, with vascular sheathing, and a haemorrhagic and exudative lesion nasal to the papilla, which continued to guide the diagnosis towards retinal infiltration of possible tumour origin. The vitreous culture for microorganisms was negative and the CMF analysis showed a very hypocellular sample with no abnormal lymphocyte phenotype. Given that none of the tests performed allowed diagnostic confirmation, it was decided to perform a new 23 G PPV (and injection of 5000 Cs silicone) to perform a retina-choroid en bloc biopsy for pathology study, which was finally compatible with a high-grade diffuse B-cell lymphoma. An orbital and cerebral MRI with gadolinium was performed, which ruled out lesions compatible with cerebral lymphoma, but confirmed some contrast enhancement in the retina, with no involvement of the optic nerve or other orbital structures. The patient was referred to the Haematology Department for systemic screening with lumbar puncture, cranio-thoracic-abdominal CT scan and laboratory tests, all of which were negative and therefore a diagnosis of LIOP was made.
The patient and her relatives refused systemic treatment or radiotherapy, but accepted treatment with 0.1 ml of rituximab i.v. injection off-label, which was carried out on up to four occasions. In this case, given that the patient had silicone in the anterior chamber and in the vitreous compartment, CMF cannot be performed to control CD20 negativisation, so photographic follow-up is proposed, as well as periodic study of the interleukin (IL)-10:IL-6 ratio in aqueous humour to assess the therapeutic efficacy and follow-up of LIOP, as well as systemic controls with PL every month and MRI every three months.
