CLINICAL HISTORY

REASON FOR CONSULTATION:
Male patient aged 14 years who attended the Emergency Department of the referral hospital for a skin rash.

PERSONAL HISTORY:
No known drug allergies. Mild atopic dermatitis. Complete vaccination schedule.

CURRENT MEDICAL HISTORY:
Pruritic rash, with centrifugal progression in the last 12 hours.
Not accompanied by fever or other symptoms.
No changes in daily habits, no contact with new products, ingestion of unusual foods, or contact with animals.
There are no other people in their environment with similar symptoms.
She reported at least two episodes of profuse sweating on previous nights.
The day before he finished treatment with Amoxicillin for a bacterial "pharyngitis" without confirmation with TDR for EBHGA or culture.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
BEG, normohydrated, eupneic.
Generalised macular exanthema, more accentuated on the trunk, which respects palms and soles. No scratching lesions. No soft tissue or joint oedema.
No significant cervical adenopathy or hepato/splenomegaly.
ENT: no tonsillar hypertrophy, no exudates, no enanthema.
The rest of the examination by apparatus is normal.

CLINICAL JUDGEMENT:
Non-specific pruritic exanthema....

TREATMENT:
Desloratadine 5 mg/day


EVOLUTION
Our patient attended the health centre 24 hours later:
The exanthema persists but is not urticarial in nature.
TRD for EBHGA: negative.
Diagnosis: urticaria
Treatment: Methylprednisolone 40 mg IM
Prednisone 30 mg oral for three days.
Three days later he comes in for abdominal pain. He remains afebrile:

Physical examination
Generalised macular rash on the trunk and EESS.
Pharyngo-tonsillar hyperemia without exudate.
Submandiblular and left laterocervical adenopathies.
TDR for EBHGA: positive

Diagnosis: Scarlet fever

Treatment: Amoxicillin-Clavulanic acid 500 /125 mg every 8h 7 days.
Treatment with oral prednisone is discontinued

Two days later:
Progression of macular exanthema, not confluent, extending to acral areas, respecting palms and soles and with facial involvement, not scratchy, no predominance of folds, no pastia lines, does not respect Filatov's triangle.
No strawberry tongue.
Hypertrophic tonsils, hyperemic, with whitish exudate.
Bilateral laterocervical adenopathies.
No splenomegaly or hepatomegaly.

Referred to the emergency department for urgent laboratory tests:
Lymphomonocytosis (leukocytes 18,700: N 23.9%; L 65.9%; M 9.2%).
Positive rapid test for EBV
GOT 60 and GPT 78

Diagnosis: INFECTIOUS MONONUCLEOSIS.
Antibiotic discontinued. Symptomatic treatment
After 48 hours almost complete resolution of the exanthem.
And progressive remission of the symptoms in two weeks.

