A 47-year-old man with no personal history of interest arrived at the Emergency Department in medical transport, unaccompanied. He presented with acute confusional syndrome accompanied by a fever of 38oC, and it was not possible to establish a chronology of symptoms due to the patient's neurological condition. In the neurological examination, the patient's gaze was notable, with nystagmus to the right and inability to look to the left, as well as mid mydriatic, hyper-reactive pupils, without meningismus, and without signs of intracranial hypertension, with indifferent cutaneous-plantar reflex, and without other alterations of interest. In the rest of the physical examination, cardiorespiratory, abdominal and limb examination, there were no significant alterations at the time of the initial assessment. In view of the suspected central nervous system infection, empirical antibiotic treatment was started with ceftriaxone 2g every 24 hours and acyclovir 800 mg every 8 hours.
Urgent laboratory tests requested on the patient's arrival at the emergency department showed leukocytosis of 21,650 cells/μL with 80% neutrophilia, with normality of the other two series of the haemogram. Biochemistry showed a random glycaemia of 169 mg/dL, with normal renal function and normal ions, as well as CRP 2.5 mg/dL. Coagulation without alterations. Venous blood gases showed pH 7.31, pCO2 36 mmHg, pO2 67 mmHg, HCO3 18.1 mEq/L, and lactate 5.2 mmol/L. Blood, urine and gastric juice were negative for toxins. A cranial CT scan was performed, where no significant alterations were detected.
With these results, a lumbar puncture was performed, with clear cerebrospinal fluid, normal pressure, with the following data in the cytochemistry: protein 133 mg/dL, glucose 77 mg/dL, leukocytes 77 with 94% mononuclear, 3 red blood cells. While still in the ED, the patient's general condition worsened abruptly and he was transferred to the Critical Care Unit, where he suffered a partial tonic-clonic seizure in the left upper limb with secondary generalisation, which subsided after administration of 10 mg of intravenous diazepam. After the coma episode, in a coma with post-critical state, he presented 6 points on the Glasgow scale and it was decided to intubate him orotracheally, connect him to mechanical ventilation and admit him to the ICU, where he also required vasoactive drugs due to haemodynamic instability (systolic blood pressure 80 mmHg).
During his stay in the ICU, the patient regained haemodynamic stability with the use of noradrenaline, tolerating its progressive withdrawal until it was discontinued. Similarly, there was a progressive improvement in the level of consciousness, which allowed mechanical ventilation to be withdrawn and extubation, with progressive improvement in cognitive level until Glasgow 15 was reached. The antibiotic regimen initiated in the ED was maintained and treatment with phenytoin was started.

Differential diagnosis
In a patient with acute confusional syndrome, motor focality and fever, the first diagnosis to consider, due to its severity and prognostic implications, is the existence of a central nervous system infection, fundamentally of the encephalitis type. In our environment, in immunocompetent patients, viral encephalitis is the most frequent cause, being secondary to enterovirus, and the one with the highest morbidity and mortality rate is infection by herpes simplex virus type 1, although other viral agents such as Toscana virus, varicella-zoster virus, etc. cannot be ruled out. There are other notable causes of meningoencephalitis with clear fluid, such as bacterial (Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Treponema pallidum, etc.) or fungal infections, or non-infectious causes such as paraneoplastic, secondary to drugs, venous thrombosis of subdural sinuses, or those associated with immune-mediated systemic diseases (systemic lupus erythematosus, Behçet's disease, sarcoidosis, etc.) or vasculitis.

Evolution
Given the satisfactory evolution of the patient in the ICU, with no recurrence of seizure activity, he was transferred to the hospital ward of the Infectious Diseases Unit. The detailed neurological examination carried out at that time highlighted the existence of anisocoria, with mydriatic right pupil, scarcely reactive to light and moderately reactive to accommodation, with the rest of the cranial nerves normal; a certain 2/5 paresis of the extensor muscles of the right hand persisted, with the supinator of that side affected with preservation of the triceps and the right ulnar and median muscles being normal; osteotendinous reflexes alive; bilateral skin-plantar flexor reflex; somewhat diminished vibratory sensitivity in the ankles, moderate bilateral finger-nose dysmetry, as well as a moderately ataxic gait, with opening of the base of support, with tandem walking impossible without assistance; Romberg negative. The rest of the physical examination showed no alterations of interest.
During his stay on the ward, transthoracic echocardiography was requested, with no significant structural alterations or signs of infective endocarditis. Venous blood cultures taken on arrival at the emergency department were negative. A brain magnetic resonance imaging scan with leptomeningeal contrast uptake was also performed, without parenchymal alterations; the angio-resonance of the Willis polygon showed the existence of a 3-mm saccular aneurysm at the level of the left middle cerebral artery. The electroencephalographic study showed right temporal intermittent rhythmic theta focal activity. The microbiological study of cerebrospinal fluid requested in the emergency department was negative, both the usual culture and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for herpes simplex virus (HSV) 1 and 2, enterovirus and varicella-zoster virus.
In addition, serology was requested for syphilis with the following result: RPR 1/128, positive Ig G + Ig M syphilis, and positive FTAABS. In view of these findings, a new lumbar puncture was performed with persistence of hyperproteinorrachia and pleocytosis with predominance of mononuclear cells, negativity of new HSV PCR, and positive RPR detection in cerebrospinal fluid.
With the diagnosis of neurological disorders, given that the patient was allergic to penicillin and there was no option of desensitising therapy, treatment with ceftriaxone was maintained for 14 days, with marked clinical improvement in the patient, with pupillary normalisation, no residual paresis and no new seizures, which led to hospital discharge with close follow-up in the clinic to monitor the response to treatment.

Final diagnosis
Neurological: syphilitic meningitis versus meningovascular syphilis.
