A 63-year-old patient with a history of permanent non-valvular atrial fibrillation, benign prostatic hypertrophy and high-grade intraurothelial bladder neoplasia. He had no known drug allergies or toxic habits and was receiving regular treatment with atenolol 50mg/24h, digoxin 0.25mg/24h, ASA 300mg/24h, omeprazole 40mg/24h and periodic intravesical instillations of Bacillus Calmette-Guèrin (BCG). Consultation at the emergency department for fever of 39o C of six hours of evolution with no evident source. A diagnosis of urinary tract infection was made and outpatient treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 2 grams every 12 hours was indicated. After two weeks of treatment, the patient consulted again due to persistent fever together with pollakiuria and coluria, and was admitted to hospital by the Urology Department with a diagnosis of urinary tract infection.

Complementary tests on admission showed an increase in CRP of 89 mg/L, slightly elevated fibrinogen (6.5 g/L) and haematuria, with the rest of the blood count, renal function, electrolytes and coagulation parameters within normal limits. A chest X-ray performed 48 hours before admission was reported as normal. Given the persistence of fever and worsening general condition, a referral to the infectious diseases unit was made.

The patient appeared serious, with fever 38.3o C, blood pressure 94/54 mmHg, heart rate 102 beats per minute, normal cardiorespiratory auscultation, abdomen not painful on palpation, no evidence of masses or organomegaly, non-painful bilateral renal fist percussion and lower limbs without oedema. She denied respiratory symptoms. Laboratory tests were requested, showing the presence of gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase (GGT) greater than 400 U/l, alkaline phosphatase of 200 U/l, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 97 mm/h and CRP of 90 mg/l. A new chest X-ray revealed a diffuse micronodular pattern.

Differential diagnosis
In the presence of fever, dissociated cholestasis and diffuse micronodular lung pattern, the differential diagnosis includes neoplastic, autoimmune and infectious processes. Primary lung involvement by lymphoma is rare and accounts for less than 0.5% of all lung tumours. It may present as multiple pulmonary nodules and be associated with prolonged fever and cholestasis if there is concomitant liver involvement. Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma accounts for about 5% of bronchogenic carcinomas. It is poorly associated with smoking and may present as an isolated lung mass or as multiple pulmonary nodules. Lymphomatoid granulomatosis is a rare entity, consisting of a pulmonary granulomatous vasculitis manifesting as multiple pulmonary nodules and involvement of other organs (skin, kidney, nervous system, liver). It is a lymphoproliferative process related to Epstein Barr virus infection and large cell B lymphoma. Although all these tumour processes cannot be ruled out in our case, the presence of synchronous neoplasms, although possible, is exceptional, so that metastatic lung disease should be considered. However, this is a non-infiltrating urothelial tumour, in which such metastatic involvement, although possible, is exceptional.

As for connective tissue diseases, both Wegener's disease and sarcoidosis could explain a large part of the clinical findings in our case. Wegener's disease may present as multiple pulmonary nodules and systemic symptoms (fever, general condition); however, upper airway involvement and renal involvement with proteinuria and microhaematuria are common. Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous disease in which lung involvement is very frequent, as well as fever and dissociated cholestasis due to the presence of hepatic granulomas. However, the most frequent finding on chest X-ray is the presence of hilar adenopathy associated or not with an interstitial pattern.

Inhalation diseases, such as silicosis or other pneumoconiosis, can be ruled out in our case due to the lack of epidemiological history and the normality of the previous chest X-ray.

Among the infectious processes, histoplasmosis and coccidioidomycosis, although with compatible clinical pictures, can be ruled out due to the absence of a history of travel to endemic areas and/or data of severe immunosuppression. Similarly, invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is highly unlikely, as it most often affects immunocompromised individuals or those with advanced stages of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Pulmonary nocardiosis is a rare entity that also occurs mainly in immunocompromised patients, with prolonged treatment with corticosteroids or COPD. Another infectious process to consider would be the presence of septic pulmonary emboli originating in endocarditis, although the nodules are usually larger. Blood cultures and an echocardiogram would be appropriate. The likelihood of viral pneumonia should be considered, but the most common is varicella/zoster pneumonia, which is very unlikely without the presence of the characteristic skin lesions. Finally, the most likely diagnosis is the presence of miliary tuberculosis (TB), both from the clinical picture and the radiological image.

Evolution
When the patient was re-interrogated, we learned that the onset of the clinical symptoms had coincided with the administration of the 6th dose of intravesical BCG. A study was initiated, requesting new laboratory tests, blood cultures, urine culture and CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis.
The haemogram findings were within normal limits. Fibrinogen 6.5 g/l, rest of coagulation normal. Liver enzymes ranged GOT 49-96 U/l, GPT45-72 U/l, GGT 401-640 U/l, FA 200- 225 U/l, protein 6.2-7.4 g/dl, rest normal. The values of other acute phase reactants such as CRP and ESR were around 89-65 mg/l and 97-54 mm/h respectively. Serology for hepatitis, HIV and autoimmunity were negative. Urine microhaematuria persisted and urine culture was negative.
Due to the presence of a diffuse and bilateral interstitial pattern with a predominantly micronodular, diffuse pattern on the chest X-ray and the history of endovesical instillation of BCG, serial urine smears and mycobacterial cultures were requested, the results of which were negative. Sputum smears could not be performed due to lack of expectoration. Blood cultures were negative. CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed bilateral parahilar adenopathies, diffuse bilateral micronodular interstitial pattern predominantly in the bases compatible with miliary TB, small hiatal hernia, homogeneous liver with smooth contours and L4 haemangioma.
Treatment was started with isoniazid, rifampicin and ethambutol as well as corticosteroids, presenting clinical improvement with disappearance of fever and micturition syndrome, for which he was discharged from hospital. At subsequent check-ups, the patient continued to comply with treatment, was asymptomatic and his transaminases normalised. He completed treatment and a post-treatment mycobacterial serological investigation was performed, which was negative.

Final diagnosis
Miliary tuberculosis secondary to intravesical instillations of BCG (BCGitis).
