65-year-old female ex-smoker, without an alcohol habit, with a history of multilobar pneumonia in August 2013 due to S. maltophilia, under treatment with calcium and vitamin D due to osteopenia, who started follow-up in November 2014 due to thrombopenia and splenomegaly of chronic course. Physical examination revealed a palpable splenic pole 4 cm below the costal margin, with no other findings. Laboratory tests showed Hb 17.3 g/dl, platelets 63000/ul (88000 by manual count), leukocytes 3500/ul, peripheral blood smear with no findings, biochemistry with iron profile, thyroid hormones, alpha-1-antitrypsin and cupremia normal, hypogammaglobulinaemia (gamma band 7. 8%), beta-2-microglobulin 2 mg/l; HIV, HBV, HCV, HSV, VZV, CMV, EBV, toxoplasma, syphilis, Leishmania antigenuria and autoimmunity negative. An abdominal CT scan showed splenomegaly measuring 15 cm and hepatomegaly with a right hepatic lobe measuring 18 cm in longitudinal diameter, with a normal Doppler study. In May 2015, the patient was admitted for left basal pneumonia without microbiological isolation, and subsequently continued outpatient studies. Electrophoretic profile showed persistent hypogammaglobulinaemia (gamma band 6.8%) at the expense of Ig G and Ig A, associated with CD4 lymphopenia and mild B lymphocytosis, with adequate immunovaccinal response, negative Gaucher test, normal faecal alpha-1-antitrypsin. The patient remained asymptomatic, with no semiological or analytical changes until March 2016, when she consulted for pain in the left hypochondrium that had begun in the previous 4 days, radiating to the ipsilateral scapula, without constitutional symptoms or B symptoms, with evidence of massive splenomegaly that crossed the midline and reached up to 4 cm above the left iliac crest. Laboratory tests showed Hb 10.3 g/dl, platelets 56000/ul, leukocytes 2500/ul, LDH 350 U/l, beta-2-microglobulin 6.8 mg/l, gamma band 5.7%, negative direct polyspecific Coombs, smear and immunophenotype of peripheral blood with no findings. Bone marrow biopsy and thoracic-abdominal-pelvic CT scan showed splenomegaly measuring 23x19x10 cm with incipient subcapsular perfusion defect. The PET-CT scan showed increased metabolic activity in a diffuse manner in the spleen and supra- and infradiaphragmatic lymphadenopathies. A diagnostic-therapeutic splenectomy was performed, obtaining a splenectomy specimen of 2870 g, 24x20x8 cm, with red and white pulp infiltrated by lymphocytes with immunochemistry compatible with low-grade B lymphoma, congruent with bone marrow histology.
