Anamnesis
An 81-year-old woman came to the emergency department with disseminated skin lesions of 2 weeks' evolution. These lesions had been appearing progressively and were evolving towards ulceration and suppuration. He reported local pain as the only associated symptomatology; there was no general malaise; there had been no fever or associated shivering, nor any other symptoms at other levels. Medical history included: allergy to clavulanic acid, hypothyroidism on levothyroxine replacement therapy, dyslipidaemia on statin therapy, hypertension on treatment with indapamide and osteoporosis treated with risendronic acid. The recent medical history included a patellar fracture treated conservatively, which had obliged the patient to stay for 3 months in a medium-stay home for rehabilitation treatment; she had been discharged home 3 weeks earlier.

Physical examination
She presented multiple nodular lesions 1-4 cm in diameter, located on the abdomen and limbs, in different stages of evolution: some were very inflammatory in appearance with significant perilesional cellulitis, and others were open to the outside, which drained purulent content with the slightest compression. In some of the lesions, several drainage orifices could be seen. In addition, in the area of the pubic hair, pustules centred by hair follicles were observed.


Complementary examinations
The lesions were cultured and an eyelet biopsy was performed, one part of which was sent for microbiological study and the other for anatomopathological study. In the two direct swab samples and in the biopsy culture, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) grew.
The skin biopsy showed dense polymorphonuclear leukocyte infiltrates with microabcessification and some foci of necrosis. There were no granulomas or signs of vasculitis.
During hospital admission, the patient suffered a febrile peak, so blood cultures were taken and were negative.
With the microbiological isolation and the history of the febrile episode, it was decided to rule out Staphylococcus aureus involvement at other levels: an echocardiogram, chest X-ray and fundus study by ophthalmology were performed, all without findings of septic metastases.

Diagnosis
Multiple MRSA abscesses.

Treatment
It was decided to admit the patient with empirical antibiotic treatment using piperacillin-tazobactam 4 g/500 mg every 8 hours associated with linezolid 600 mg every 12 hours, with the intention of covering both gram-positive and gram-negative multiresistant germs.
A history of recent long-term institutionalisation was the reason for the choice of this combination. Daily dressings with fusidic acid ointment, silicone dressings and non-compressive bandages were performed. Once MRSA isolation was confirmed, it was decided to withdraw peracillin-tazobactam and to maintain treatment with linezolid only, which was maintained for two weeks.

Evolution
With antibiotic therapy, the lesions resolved completely. During her admission, the patient was treated for preventive medicine and underwent specific decolonisation treatment.
