Male, 62 years old. No known drug allergies. Smoker with clinical criteria of chronic bronchitis. Cardiovascular risk factors: hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus on treatment with oral antidiabetics and dyslipidaemia. He underwent surgery in 2009 in another centre for an abdominal aortic aneurysm with resection of the aneurysmal sac and implantation of a Dacron aorto-bifemoral prosthesis. Subsequently, in 2012, a control computed tomography (CT) scan showed another right iliac aneurysm with retrograde filling, so he was operated again and ligation of the right external iliac artery was performed, without taking samples in the surgical process. Once in our city, in October 2013, the patient came to the vascular surgery department for pain in the right pelvic area, where an indurated, non-rolling area of about 5-6 cms was palpated.
The patient reported no fever, although he did have a non-thermometric dysthermic sensation. There were no other pathological findings in the rest of the examination. Analytically, there was no leukocytosis or neutrophilia (leukocytes 10180 /mm3, polymorphonuclear 57.8 %), with a C-reactive protein (CRP) of 35.2 mg/l and liver, renal and ion function without alterations. Chest X-ray was normal and angioCT showed a thrombosed right internal iliac aneurysm 6 cm in diameter with abscessed collection in the adjacent psoas muscle, as well as crescent-shaped collections in the ipsilateral branch of the aorto-bifemoral bypass, 6 mm in diameter, with a properly functioning bypass with retrograde filling of both external iliac arteries. The patient was admitted with a clinical diagnosis of right iliac psoas abscess and suspicion of infection of the vascular prosthesis (right branch). Additional tests were requested to study the condition.

Differential diagnosis
Infections of vascular prostheses are an important complication after repair of aortic aneurysms. They have a low incidence, ranging between 0.4 and 3%, which has been greatly reduced with the development of percutaneous techniques for their placement, but persist with a high morbidity and mortality rate (mortality rate of between 25-30%, as well as a high percentage of limb loss). They present with a very varied and non-specific clinical picture, which may include fever with shivering and general malaise, digestive bleeding (in the case of aorto-enteric fistulas) and local pain or suppuration in more superficial sections (aorto-femoral). Earlier cases (post-implantation) are often suspected, but in later infections, the clinical manifestations are usually more mild, with fever being absent in up to 30% of cases.

Depending on the site and time of infection, different micro-organisms should be taken into account. In early pelvic infections, the most frequently isolated microorganism is Staphylococcus aureus, whereas in abdominal infections, enterobacteria or Pseudomonas aeruginosa predominate, especially if there are digestive complications (intestinal haemorrhage, fistula, etc.). In contrast, in late infections, coagulase-negative staphylococci such as Staphylococcus epidermidis become more important and it should be noted that up to 30% of infections may be polymicrobial2. Blood cultures have a very low positivity rate (20-25%) and diagnosis is based on analytical determinations (elevated acute phase reactants), cultures of infected material and imaging techniques such as CT and more modern PET-CT or SPECT-CT1. If the infection is certain and cultures are repeatedly negative, infection by micro-organisms that cannot be cultured on synthetic media, such as Coxiella burnetti, for which specific serological tests are available, should also be suspected. Psoas abscesses are a pathology with a low incidence which has increased in recent years thanks to the use of imaging tests such as CT. It is a collection of pus at the level of the psoas muscle but can extend to the groin region.
Based on their pathogenesis, psoas abscesses are classified as follows:
- Primary abscesses: In Europe between 17 and 61% of abscesses are primary3 , they appear after lymphatic or haematogenous spread from a distant focus, which may not be known. They are more frequent in subjects with associated comorbidity: the elderly, diabetics, alcoholism or previous trauma4.
- Secondary abscesses: These occur as direct contiguous spread of the infection to other adjacent structures, and there are doubts as to whether the psoas abscess is the cause or the consequence of the infection in the other structures. Among the most frequent adjacent foci are: gastrointestinal tract (inflammatory bowel disease, diverticulitis, appendicitis), genitourinary (pyelonephritis, prostatitis), osteoarticular structures (spondylodiscitis) and/or vascular structures among others. In a series of 40 cases of infected aortic aneurysms, 20% were complicated by psoas abscess. Infections of endovascular material have also been reported.

The differential diagnosis should be established fundamentally with psoas haematoma, which occurs in patients with anticoagulation or coagulation disorders, giving a similar clinical picture but with radiological differences; with retrocecal appendicitis which can also give a positive psoas sign; or with psoas bursitis in relation to rheumatoid arthritis, trauma or overuse of the muscles, in these cases the pain is more localised at hip level as well as normal imaging techniques3. Diagnosis is based on imaging techniques, with the yield of the microbiological study varying from 90-100% in the culture of the aspirate and much lower, 25-50%, in blood cultures.

Evolution
Serial blood cultures requested on admission were repeatedly negative after 7 days of incubation. At the same time, leukocyte-labelled scintigraphy was performed, but no uptake of the radiopharmaceutical was observed in the prosthetic bypass or in other locations suggestive of an infectious/inflammatory process. Given the high suspicion of infection, the absence of microbiological isolation and the accessibility of the psoas abscess, it was decided to perform a CT-guided puncture. 25cc of purulent fluid was extracted and sent for culture, with negative results for both aerobic and anaerobic cultures after 10 days of incubation.

Given the suspicion of an infectious process of the vascular prosthetic material, with a more larval and paucisymptomatic course, serology was requested for Coxiella burnetti, which was clearly positive, with phase I titres of 1/2048 and phase II titres of 1/8192, so the patient was finally diagnosed with infection of the vascular prosthesis-iliac arthritis by Coxiella burnetti. Treatment was started with doxycycline 100mg/12 hours together with hydroxychloroquine 200mg/12 hours after deciding jointly with Vascular Surgery, intensive antibiotic treatment prior to explanting the prosthesis and implanting a new one. Periodic check-ups were continued, and the patient remained asymptomatic, with excellent tolerance to oral medication and disappearance of the psoas abscess and the rest of the periprosthetic collections, so it was decided to maintain treatment for a prolonged period and defer prosthetic replacement due to the high surgical risk and the good evolution. Finally, after completing three years of treatment, it was decided to discontinue it. The patient has continued to be closely monitored at the clinic (two years after treatment was discontinued), with serial PET scans that continue to show no signs of acute infection and determination of Coxiella burnetti antibody titres, which remain above 1/1024 as usual.

Final diagnosis
Infection of aorto-bifemoral vascular prosthesis vs. iliac arteritis due to Coxiella burnetti (chronic Q fever). Psoas abscess due to contiguity, secondary to this infection.
