21-year-old woman with no known drug allergies or toxic habits. She had been diagnosed in childhood with restrictive membranous ventricular septal defect and was being followed up by cardiology without surgical treatment. The patient did not take treatment on a regular basis, led an active life and worked as a hairdresser.
She consulted the emergency department of our centre for a week-long febrile peaks in the afternoon together with profuse sweating. She reported having lost three kilograms of weight in that week without reducing her intake. She had no other associated symptoms. On initial examination he was haemodynamically stable, with a systolic murmur on the left sternal border. There was no evidence of lymphadenopathy or megaliths on examination.
There were no parenchymal alterations on posteroanterior or lateral chest X-rays. Analyses were taken in the emergency department: haemogram, coagulation and blood gases were normal. Urinary sediment showed no alterations. There were also no alterations in the ionic, renal function or liver profile. Only a CRP of 42.4 mg/L was noted.
Blood cultures were taken, coinciding with the onset of fever and shivering, and the patient was admitted to the ward for examination.
An abdominal ultrasound scan showed a 17 cm splenomegaly, and the study was extended with a thoracoabdominal CT scan. This study showed small opacities of the lung parenchyma that were patchy, peripheral and bilateral, with an alveolar appearance and the aforementioned splenomegaly; no appreciable lymphadenopathy, masses or vascular alterations were observed. The radiologist concluded in her report that the findings were non-specific and could correspond to multiple causes, including inflammatory or infectious pathologies.
An autoimmunity study was performed, including anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, which was negative. The patient's proteinogram and immunoglobulin values were normal.
On the third day of admission, microbiology was notified due to the growth of gram-positive bacilli in a blood culture bottle. In view of the results, a test was performed which supported the diagnosis.

Differential diagnosis
The patient presented with a fever of one week's duration with splenomegaly and nodular pulmonary images. Splenomegaly is a non-specific sign that can be secondary to several pathologies, and many of them can be associated with fever.
It may be secondary to:
(a) acute infections such as mononucleosis, viral hepatitis, CMV or toxoplasma infection;
b) sub-acute or chronic infections such as tuberculosis, bacterial endocarditis, brucellosis, syphilis or HIV; 
c) tropical or parasitic infections such as malaria, leishmaniasis or schistosomiasis.

Multiple haematological processes can also cause splenomegaly such as myeloproliferative processes, lymphomas, water leukaemias, thalassaemias, spherocytosis, autoimmune haemolysis or megaloblastic anaemia. These syndromes usually present with alterations in the haemogram and/or the presence of lymphadenopathies, which we did not observe in our patient.
Other causes of splenomegaly are congestive, secondary to cirrhosis, portal hypertension or congestive heart failure, which was not present in our case. Neoplastic causes such as haemangiomas or possible splenic metastases could also cause it. As well as inflammatory diseases such as sarcoidosis, lupus or rheumatoid arthritis; or other deposition diseases such as Gaucher disease, amyloidosis or Niemann-Pick syndrome.
Our patient also presented with nodular pulmonary images describing small, peripheral, bilateral, patchy lung parenchymal opacities of alveolar appearance. In the differential diagnosis of multiple pulmonary masses, the neoplastic origin of the masses should always be taken into account, and in the case of multiple masses, the possibility of balloon metastasis should be considered.
However, there are also benign entities that can mimic a lung neoplasm; these can be classified into four main groups:
1. congenital: such as bronchial atresia; intralobar sequestration, arteriovenous malformations or bronchogenic cysts.
Infectious: lung abscess, round pneumonia, hydatid cyst, actinomycosis, mycetomas, septic emboli or granulomas.
3. Inflammatory: sarcoidosis, bronchiolitis obliterans with organising pneumonia (BONO), Wegener's granulomatosis or amyloidosis.
4. Others: haematomas, pulmonary infarcts, pneumoconiosis.

The fact that these images are multiple, and that they were not present in the patient's previous imaging tests, rules out many of these options. Grouping the presence of fever with splenomegaly and pulmonary nodular images, we consider as the most likely diagnoses an infectious process that could cause pulmonary septic emboli, amyloidosis and autoimmune diseases with pulmonary nodules that can cause fever, such as granulomatosis with polyangiitis (former Wegener's disease) or bronchiolitis obliterans with organising pneumonia (BONO).
The fact that the autoimmunity study was negative allowed ruling out granulomatosis. The patient did not present dyspnoea, cough, respiratory failure or other respiratory symptoms that would lead us to suspect the presence of BONO. The normal values of the proteinogram and immunoglobulins make the presence of amyloidosis unlikely.
In view of the suspicion of an emboligenic infectious process, a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, showing an image of lobulated vegetation implanted on the right side of the membranous ventricular septal defect without pulmonary valve involvement. The cardiac valves showed no significant alterations or vegetations.
The microbiology service performed a MALDI-TOF spectrometry analysis on the sample and classified it as Abiotrophia defectiva. The antibiogram showed sensitivity to beta-lactams and aminoglycosides. Our patient would therefore meet the criteria for certain endocarditis, according to the modified Duke criteria. One major criterion is endocardial vegetation and 4 minor ones (predisposing heart disease, fever with temperature over 38oC, pulmonary embolisms and a positive blood culture).

Final diagnosis
Infective endocarditis on ventricular septal defect due to Abiotrophia defectiva with septic pulmonary embolisms.

Evolution
Antibiotic treatment was started with ceftriaxone 2 grams every 12 hours and gentamicin 80 mg every 8 hours. The patient remained afebrile from the first day of treatment. She showed progressive improvement in general condition. At no time did she show signs of heart failure. Weekly control transthoracic echocardiograms were performed and showed no changes with respect to the diagnostic echocardiogram. A week after antibiotic treatment, blood cultures were negative. After two weeks of intravenous antibiotic treatment with two antimicrobials; given the clinical stability of the patient, she was discharged, continuing 4 more weeks of intravenous ceftriaxone in a day hospital regime. Weekly medical check-ups were performed with control analyses and echocardiograms. At 6 weeks the patient was asymptomatic, acute phase reactants had decreased to normal, and echocardiograms were similar to those at the time of diagnosis.
