Anamnesis
A 43-year-old man, with no medical or surgical history of interest, came to the emergency department referred from his health centre for painful ulcers on the shaft of the penis suggestive of genital herpes, which did not heal despite the treatment administered (acyclovir 200 mg every 4 hours for 5 days). He reported no other associated skin lesions. The patient confessed to multiple unprotected sexual relations with other men (MSM) in recent months.

Physical examination
Erythematous, ulcerated lesions with an active border, slightly exudative, located on the shaft of the penis, painful and slightly infiltrated on palpation. Bilateral inguinal lymph nodes were palpable in the inguinal region, which were not painful.


Complementary examinations
Suspecting an infectious condition, possibly a sexually transmitted infection (STI), various complementary tests were requested. Microbiological culture of the urethral exudate showed no bacterial growth and no unusual microbiota. PCR of the exudate from the bottom of the ulcer was negative for herpes virus type 1 (HSV-1) and 2 (HSV2). The STI serologies requested were negative for reaginic anti treponema pallidum antibodies (RPR), treponemal antibody absorption test (FTA-ABS), anti treponema pallidum IgM, as well as for total anti treponema pallidum antibodies. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serologies were also negative, with only anti-HBc, anti-HBe and anti-HBs antibody positivity with negative HBsAg antigen, which informed us of a past hepatitis B infection. Due to the findings obtained in the complementary tests and with a high clinical suspicion of STI, a PCR of Treponema pallidum DNA from the exudate of the ulcer was requested, which turned out to be positive. Two weeks after the first visit, new serological tests were requested, and the total anti-Treponema pallidum and IgM anti-Treponema pallidum antibodies were positive, with RPR and FTA remaining negative, as well as the rest of the serological tests.

Diagnosis
Primary syphilis.

Treatment
In view of the positive PCR of the sample taken, and prior to the positive serology for IgM anti-Treponema pallidum antibodies, treatment was started with intramuscular benzathine penicillin in a single dose (2.4 million units).

Evolution
A few days after administration of intramuscular penicillin, the ulcerated lesions on the penis began to improve, leaving a small scar in the balanopreputial sulcus.
