We present the case of a 40-year-old man from Romania who had been living in Spain for three months and had no known drug allergies. He was a smoker, with an accumulated consumption of 20 packets/year and a regular alcohol drinker. He was not taking medication, nor did he report any other personal or family history of interest. He was brought to the emergency department for vomiting, first of food content and later somewhat darker, together with marked general malaise and abdominal pain.

On examination he showed a fair general condition, hypotension (BP 97/56 mmHg), a heart rate of 107 beats per minute, 98% SatO2 without supplementary oxygen intake and a temperature of 36.2oC. He had mild tachypnoea, skin pallor and conjunctival jaundice, with no asterixis. Cardiopulmonary auscultation showed rhythmic tones, tachycardic without murmurs and a preserved vesicular murmur. He showed generalised pain on abdominal palpation with no masses or megaliths and no signs of peritoneal irritation. The rest of the examination showed no other abnormalities, including digital rectal examination, which was negative.

The emergency haemogram showed a leukocytosis of 22,140 cells/μL (93.5% neutrophils and 4.5% lymphocytes), platelets of 84,000/μL and haemoglobin in the normal range (16 g/dL). Urgent biochemistry showed renal failure (Cr 3.32 mg/dL), with normal urea and ions, total bilirubin 7.32 mg/dL, ALT 6,278 U/L, ammonium 57 μg/dL, procalcitonin 11.87 ng/mL, lactate 212.72 mg/dL and LDH 15,545 U/L. Arterial blood gases showed pH 7.16, HCO3- 8 mmol/L, base excess -19.3 mmol/L and pCO2 21 mmHg. He also showed signs of coagulopathy (PT INR 8.1 and APTT 58.7 seconds). The chest X-ray was normal and the abdominal ultrasound showed an enlarged liver with smooth contours and homogeneous echogenicity, without lesions. Finally, he was admitted to the intensive care unit with suspected acute liver failure. Serology for HIV, HAV and HBV, including HBV DNA, were negative. Antibodies and RNA for HCV were also negative. In the following days, the patient presented with an episode of melena, as a manifestation of gastrointestinal bleeding.

Differential diagnosis
The aetiology of acute liver failure is diverse. Infectious, medicinal, toxic, ischaemic, metabolic, metabolic, malignant infiltration or autoimmune diseases are the main possibilities. Our patient and his relative denied taking any medication, including paracetamol, or herbal products, in recent times. He also denied having recently consumed mushrooms. Therefore, we could almost completely exclude drug and toxic aetiology, mainly Amanita phalloides, from the aetiological diagnosis. Our patient had a history of alcohol intake, which makes alcoholic hepatitis a probable cause of the picture. In contrast, hepatomegaly and ascites, which are usually present in hepatitis of alcoholic aetiology, were absent in our patient's examination. In addition, in our case, very high ALT levels were present, whereas in alcoholic hepatitis ALT does not usually rise above 500 U/L. Therefore, this does not seem to be the most likely cause, although it cannot be completely ruled out. Our patient showed hypotension, which can lead to hypoperfusion, ischaemic hepatitis and acute liver failure. However, no other pathology other than liver damage that could have triggered ischaemic hepatitis, such as heart failure, an infectious source of sepsis, was observed. The patient presented abdominal pain, although without ascites or hepatomegaly, making Budd Chiari syndrome a cause that should be taken into account, although it does not seem likely. Copper deposition disease (Wilson's disease) is usually diagnosed at an earlier age than in our patient and is characteristically accompanied by haemolytic anaemia, which is not present, and decreased alkaline phosphatase levels, with elevated bilirubin. It does not seem, therefore, to be the most likely aetiology. Another cause is Reye's syndrome, which usually occurs in the paediatric population with a viral process and taking anti-inflammatory drugs, ruling out this possibility almost completely. Our patient had no history, no adenopathies, and no other exploratory data suggestive of malignant infiltration. In cases of liver failure, the most frequent primaries that should be considered are metastatic breast cancer, which is very rare in men, and lymphoma. This makes these two entities unlikely causes. Autoimmune hepatitis is also included in the aetiological diagnosis of our case. However, this usually has a more chronic subacute course, with fulminant hepatitis being rare. It is usually accompanied by other extrahepatic autoimmune disorders, which our patient does not present. Therefore, it is not a likely option. Among viral infections other than HAV, HBV and HCV, we must consider HEV, which has an increasing seroprevalence in developed countries. In Spain, the prevalence of antibodies is around 10%. Therefore, it should be taken into account in cases of unaffiliated hepatitis, as in our patient, regardless of travel history. Other viruses and infectious agents described as causing hepatitis, but which have very occasionally been associated with fulminant liver failure, are cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), varicella-zoster virus (VZV), human herpesvirus type 6 (HHV 6) and adenovirus, specifically serotype 5 of species C and Coxsackie B virus or Coxiella burnetti.
Our patient presented with an episode of upper gastrointestinal bleeding in the context of liver failure. HSV is associated with involvement of the digestive mucosa, which could be related to the origin of the melenas that our patient presented with. However, HSV is a very infrequent cause of fulminant hepatitis in immunocompetent patients and neither did our patient present mucocutaneous rash; nevertheless, we should consider HSV as a probable cause in our differential diagnosis.

Evolution
Urgent oral endoscopy was performed, showing, from 25 mm from the dental arch, an erythematous mucosa that was very friable when rubbed, with some millimetre-sized, rounded, raised, crater-shaped ulcers. At the level of the distal oesophagus, there were wide and deep ulcerations with a geographic and fibrinous appearance, also affecting the cardia. These findings were interpreted as severe oesophagitis of dubious aetiology, with a viral cause being the most likely option. Serology was also expanded with HDV, HEV, HSV, CMV, EBV, Toxoplasma gondii, Rickettsia spp and Coxiella burnetti, all of which were negative, except for HSV IgG and IgM, which was positive. Autoimmunity was negative. Treatment was then started with intravenous acyclovir at a dose of 750 mg every 8 hours, with our patient showing clear improvement since its introduction and maintaining a satisfactory evolution until complete resolution of the disease. Finally, the study based on haematoxylin-eosin and immunohistochemistry of the oesophageal biopsy confirmed the herpetic aetiology of the oesophagitis, showing intense and extensive immunostaining for HSV-.

Final diagnosis
HSV-1 infection with oesophagitis and acute hepatitis. Fulminant liver failure in this context.
