Anamnesis
A 56-year-old man with a personal history of long-standing type II diabetes mellitus treated with oral antidiabetics, smoker of a packet of cigarettes a day, occasional drinker and with gouty arthritis.
The patient presented to the Emergency Department with a clinical picture of 10 days' evolution consisting of left lumbar pain radiating towards the lower abdomen associated with several episodes of emesis with a bilious appearance, fever of 39°C, profuse sweating, hyporexia and choluria. The relative reported isolated episodes of disorientation and dysarthric speech.

Physical examination
The patient was admitted to the ED with poor general condition, high fever up to 39.5oC, blood pressure 90/50 mmHg, profuse sweating and tachycardia at 140 bpm, with low level of consciousness. On examination by apparatus the following was observed: rhythmic heart sounds without murmurs, vesicular murmur present without added sounds. The abdomen was soft, depressible, with no signs of peritoneal irritation. Extremities were cold with no signs of deep vein thrombosis. Basic support measures were initiated and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) staff were contacted, who decided to admit him immediately to the ICU.

Complementary tests
Venous blood gases: pH 7.37, PaCO2 30.9 mmHg, HCO3 17.4 mEq/l, haemoglobin 12.9 mg/dl, potassium 3.3 mEq/l, sodium 120 mEq/l, glucose 266 mg/dl, lactate 1.9 IU/l.
● ED CBC (7/2/2012): creatinine 4.17 mg/dl, urea 177 mg/dl, total bilirubin 2.11 mg/dl, direct bilirubin 1.69 mg/dl, glucose 300 mg/dl, sodium 133 mEq/l, leucocytes 21.6 x 109/l, neutrophils 18.6 x 109/l, platelets 9 x 109/l.
Urine: 250 leucocytes/field, 30 red blood cells/field.
Ultrasound (6/2/2012): ultrasound findings compatible with emphysematous pyelitis of the left kidney with associated moderate pyelocaliceal dilatation. Doubtful presence of air bubbles in the cortex of the middle third of the left kidney, in which case it would be emphysematous pyelonephritis. Hepatic steatosis grade 2. Hepatosplenomegaly.
● Based on the ultrasound findings, it was decided to perform an urgent CT scan: enlarged liver, with decreased density in relation to a diffuse grade 2 hepatic steatosis. Gall bladder and biliary tract, pancreas, spleen, adrenal glands and right kidney without significant findings. The left kidney is enlarged, oedematous, with globular morphology and decreased or delayed IVC uptake, with moderate ectasia of the pelvis and proximal ureter showing hyperuptake of its walls, as an inflammatory finding. No intra- or perirenal collections were observed, with a discrete increase in the density of the perirenal fascia as the only finding. No significant alterations were identified in the distribution and morphology of intestinal loops and mesos, or in the vascular retroperitoneum. Pelvis with no findings. No free fluid.

Diagnosis
Septic shock of urological origin secondary to obstructive uropathy not yet identified. Treatment
During his stay in the ICU, he required amine support in the first hours of admission due to haemodynamic failure refractory to administration of serum therapy. Two pools of platelets were transfused for examination and urinary diversion, and a nephrostomy catheter was placed in the left kidney, initially obtaining brownish-bloody material. Progressive clinical improvement, with withdrawal of amines 24-48 hours after admission. Respiratory stable at all times with O2 saturation 98-99% with Ventimask at the beginning and subsequently with nasal goggles. Diuresis maintained.

Evolution
In the ICU he evolved favourably, with improvement in the analytical parameters, and was transferred to the urology ward on the fifth day. Once there, the patient began to experience sudden bilateral loss of vision.
Once on the ward, he was seen by the ophthalmology specialist, who diagnosed bilateral vitreous haemorrhage with posterior iris synechiae. An ocular ultrasound was requested, which revealed bilateral endophthalmitis secondary to sepsis, and a cranial CT scan ruled out central nervous system involvement. The patient could only see occasional shadows.
The patient remained febrile for most of his admission (42 days in total), so serial cultures were taken, isolating Escherichia coli in blood culture, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Enterococcus faecium in vitreous humour culture and Acinetobacter baumanii in urine. Since then, successive blood and urine cultures have been performed, all of which have been negative. All were successfully treated with antibiotics according to the antibiogram.
From the urological point of view, we began the study of the left pyelocaliceal dilatation, performing imaging tests, including abdominal X-ray, ultrasound and computed tomography (CT), which reported only some renal microabscesses, abscess in the iliac psoas and spondylodiscitis due to E. coli. All of these resolved and were confirmed by subsequent imaging tests.
The left kidney was observed without dilatation, with adequate placement of the nephrostomy catheter and no cause of the obstruction could be seen.
We decided to perform a nephrostogram, which showed a stop to the passage of contrast at the level of the lumbar ureter at L3-L4, which showed a rounded shape suggestive of radiolucent lithiasis versus pathway tumour.
Another CT scan was requested to try to clarify the aetiology, and again no ureter occupation was observed.
Urine cytology was requested, which was reported as rectifying cellular atypia, with mild acute inflammatory exudate and fungi of the Candida genus. The Infectious Diseases Service considered it as contamination of the sample and did not treat it.
In view of the confusing findings of all the diagnostic tests, the patient was scheduled for a left ureteroscopy, which revealed a fibrinoid, friable lesion that did not bleed, and no lithiasis was found at any level. A sample was taken for biopsy with cold forceps and a double J catheter was left in place. The pathological anatomy of the material submitted was reported as fibrino-inflammatory material with coccal colonies, absence of neoplasia and lithiasis crystals.
The Urology, Ophthalmology and Infectious Diseases Departments decided to discharge the patient with follow-up consultations. At discharge, the urological condition is under control, but the cause of the hydronephrosis is still unknown. It is pending review by the Surgical Retina team, but the patient remains blind.
