Medical history.

Anamnesis
We present the case of a 34-year-old man from Huelva, a crane operator by profession, with no family history of interest, no known cardiovascular risk factors or toxic habits, whose only relevant medical history was a fracture of the tibia and fibula at the age of 24 years.
He came to the emergency department with a fever of up to 39o C, of 2 weeks' evolution, well tolerated, treated with antipyretics, having consulted primary care on several occasions. He reports that two weeks before the onset of fever he had acute pharyngitis, resolved with NSAIDs. He denies cough, expectoration, chest pain, diarrhoea, dysuria or skin lesions. Neither has she presented weight loss, asthenia, anorexia, pruritus or night sweats. He has not travelled abroad. She has horses, dogs and chickens on a family farm which she visits on rare occasions.

Physical examination
Good general condition, conscious, oriented in person, time and space, well hydrated and perfused, eupneic at rest. BP 120/65 mmHg, HR 75 bpm, O2 sat 99% with fiO2 of 0.21. Afebrile. Weight: 82 kg. No lymphadenopathy or lesions on the skin or mucous membranes. Oropharynx normal. Cardiac auscultation with rhythmic tones, no audible murmurs. Respiratory auscultation with good vesicular murmur, without added noises. The abdomen is soft, depressible, non-painful, no masses or megaliths are palpable, with no signs of peritoneal irritation. The lower limbs show no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis, with symmetrical peripheral pulses.

Complementary tests
A haemogram was performed in the ED showing 3 normal series. ESR 19 mm/hour. Coagulation was normal. Biochemistry with normal glucose, creatinine, urea, sodium, potassium, amylase, lipase and bilirubin. CRP 1.5 mg/dL, procalcitonin 0.4 ng/mL. GPT 120 U/L, GOT 83 U/L. Urine systemic normal. Two sets of blood cultures were taken and were negative after 5 days. Urine culture was negative. Chest X-ray with cardiomediastinal silhouette within normal limits and lung parenchyma without pathological findings.
On the ward, the biochemistry was expanded, highlighting GGT 110 U/L, alkaline phosphase 180 U/L, normal Ig A, G and M, normal complement, negative ANA and ANCAs, cholesterol 107 mg/dL, HDL 9 mg/dL, LDL 71 mg/dL, Triglycerides 136 mg/dL. Infectious serology was requested for Hepatitis A, B, C virus, heterophile Ac, EBV Ac, CMV Ac, HIV Ac, Toxoplasma Ac, Rickettsia spp Ac, Coxiella Ac, Mycoplasma pneumoniae Ac and Rose Bengal. Mantoux was negative.
While awaiting the results of the infectious serology, an ultrasound scan of the abdomen was performed, showing the presence of hyperechogenic material in the vascular lumen of a segment of the right portal branch, which did not show a significant increase in diameter; the main portal vein had a slightly increased diameter (1.2 cm), its patency being demonstrated with colour and pulsed Doppler. In addition, there is slight homogeneous splenomegaly. The aforementioned findings suggest pylephlebitis or probable right portal septic thrombosis. An urgent abdominal CT scan was requested for further evaluation, showing thrombosis of the anterior branch of the right portal vein, without identifying the cause, which led to an alteration in the perfusion of the hepatic parenchyma; discrete hepatomegaly and discrete mesenteric panniculitis. An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and colonoscopy were also performed, which were normal.

Differential diagnosis
The initial differential diagnosis on admission was made among those causes that produce prolonged fever. The main causes are infections, neoplasms, connective tissue diseases and drugs. The latter was ruled out from the beginning, as our patient was not taking any medication. Among infections, the most frequent are tuberculosis and abscesses generally located in the abdomen and pelvis, osteomyelitis or subacute endocarditis, without forgetting infections caused by hepatitis viruses, Epstein Barr virus or cytomegalovirus (CMV). Among neoplasms, lymphoma (especially non-Hodgkin's), leukaemia, renal cell carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma or liver metastases. Of the connective tissue diseases, adult Still's disease, giant cell arteritis, polyarteritis nodosa, Takayasu's arteritis, Wegener's disease and cryoglobulinaemia are the most frequent.
Given the findings of imaging tests, we consider a differential diagnosis among those causes that lead to portal thrombosis. The causes of extrahepatic portal thrombosis include idiopathic causes, association with hypercoagulable states, mainly protein C and S deficiencies, post-traumatic, portal manipulation, pancreatitis, obstruction or tumour invasion, as well as bacterial or viral infections. The main causes of intrahepatic portal thrombosis are liver cirrhosis and tumour invasion by primary or secondary liver tumours.

Evolution
Upon diagnosis of pylephlebitis, treatment was started with piperacillin-tazobactam at a dose of 4/0.5 g every 8 hours empirically and enoxaparin at anticoagulant doses (80 mg every 12 hours), with fever persisting, which was even more resistant to oral treatment, requiring intravenous antipyretics. After 5 days we obtained the results of the infectious serology, which were all negative except for the Ig M Ac for CMV, which were positive. It was decided to suspend antibiotherapy and continue with enoxaparin, and the fever disappeared the following day (sixth day of admission). A new blood test was drawn one month after discharge, and Ig M and Ig G were positive. A sample was sent to an external laboratory for measurement of CMV-DNA and viraemia (not routinely performed in our centre), and was positive, with more than 100,000 copies/mL. A hypercoagulability study was performed (Factor V Leiden, G20210A mutation of the protothrombin gene, lupus anticoagulant, anti-cardiolipin IgG, anti beta-2 glycoprotein 1, homocysteine, protein C deficiency and protein S deficiency, resistance to activated protein C and antithrombin III deficiency), which was negative. A control ultrasound was repeated at one month, showing no alterations, and anticoagulation was suspended. At two months, seroconversion to CMV was observed, with disappearance of Ig M.

Final diagnosis
Therefore, the final diagnosis of our patient is portal thrombosis due to acute cytomegalovirus infection in an immunocompetent patient.
