Reason for consultation
Weakness in the lower limbs.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
Male, 27 years old. Chronic renal disease and malignant hypertension. Living donor renal transplant.

Anamnesis: patient attended the primary care emergency department due to a progressive decrease in muscle strength in the lower limbs, especially when standing upright, accompanied by intermittent myalgias. At the beginning of this clinical picture, the patient relates it to stiffness due to physical exercise. Progressively, the weakness progresses towards the proximal area producing weakness in the hands. Currently with weakness on ambulation, he is unable to stand on his own. Three weeks ago she had gastroenteritis with diarrhoea and fever of 38oC for two days, which self-limited. No traumatic history. No loss of sensibility. Afebrile.

Physical examination: Glasgow 15/15. PINLA. No campimetric alterations by confrontation. EOMs present, rest of cranial nerves preserved. No sensory alterations. Not able to get up from the chair, even with support, requires help. Walking possible with assistance, although hampered by bilateral steppage. He does not stand on heels or tiptoes. Muscle balance (D/I): deltoid 4/4, biceps +4/+4, triceps 4/4, carpal extensors 4+/4+, carpal flexors 4/4, interosseus 3/3. In lower limbs (D/I): Psoas 4+/4+, biceps femoris 3+/3+, quadriceps does not reach full range of motion (2/2), tibialis anterior 2/1, plantar flexion 2/2, extensor digitorum longus first toe 2/2. No hoffman or clonus. Bilateral flexor PCR. Bicipitals present normally. Radialis hypoactive. Patellar normal. I do not obtain Achilles.

Family and community approach
Independent for basic activities of daily living. Teacher studying for competitive examinations and doing a master's degree in languages. Lives with parents. Medium-high socio-cultural level.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Acute inflammatory demyelinating demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (Guillain Barré Syndrome).

Action plan and evolution
Given the history of acute gastroenteritis and the current neurological symptoms, Guillain Barré Syndrome was suspected and the patient was referred to the emergency department. Cranial CT scan was performed and found to be normal. CSF: Biochemistry: cells 1, proteins 47, micro CSF: normal. CBC: Cr 1.1, urea 60, K 3.4, syphilis serology negative, Anti-HBs, Anti HSV 1 and CMV positive Ig G, thyroid normal. Normal iron, b12 and folic acid. ENG: predominantly motor and demyelinating polyneuropathy. The patient underwent a course of gamma globulins with improvement. At present he continues to undergo rehabilitation and functional limitation persists with alterations in gait and limitation in both hands.
