Reason for consultation
A 29 year old patient who came to the centre referred from the CSM of the area for hashish and cocaine consumption and for refusing to receive the prescribed psychopharmacological treatment.

Family history
No pathologies of interest.

Personal history
- Somatic Of no interest.
- Psychiatric:
1. Pattern of maladaptive behaviours, with problems of integration, of acceptance of social norms, as well as oppositional, defiant and even self- and especially heteroaggressive behaviours since the age of 17; school failure, changes of school, thefts, hashish dealing, functioning with marginal groups, aggressiveness against mother, neighbours and police. Attempted psychological treatment which he did not attend.
2. Several admissions to an acute unit with the following diagnoses: antisocial personality disorder, drug dependence and toxic crisis (2000); the same diagnoses in 2001; antisocial personality disorder and possible manic-depressive psychosis (2003); antisocial personality disorder, manic-depressive psychosis and drug abuse (2005), from where he was referred to a Therapeutic Community (TC) for 6 months and in 2008 new admission for manic phase in a patient with bipolar disorder, cannabis dependence and occasional cocaine use. He has been treated with various neuroleptics, anticonvulsants and lithium, which are only maintained during periods of hospital admission.
3. Multiple outpatient psychiatric and psychological visits without subsequent follow-up.
4. Toxic substances: start of cannabis use at 16 years of age with doses of more than 10 joints/day. At the age of 17 he started abusing amphetamines, ecstasy and snorted cocaine. At the age of 25, he stopped using other drugs except cannabis, which he continued to use at the same doses, except for short periods of 2-3 months of abstinence after admission. When he came to the centre he had a cannabis consumption of 1 g/day and 4-6 "Red Bulls"/day.

History of the disease
He is the eldest of two siblings, from a structured middle-class family, both parents are workers, involved in their son's life. Until adolescence, he reports having had no problems in kindergarten and school, being a restless, intelligent and somewhat undisciplined child. At the age of 16 he started using cannabis and in COU he was sent to different schools due to academic failure, behavioural problems and hashish trafficking. At the age of 18 he dropped out of school and made a self-harming gesture which was linked to his failure at school. He began to integrate into a marginal world and his consumption of intoxicants increased, adding ecstasy, amphetamines and cocaine to cannabis, causing significant behavioural alterations, theft and aggression, being expelled from his home and ending up in prison for a few months. On leaving prison, he returned to the same life, identifying himself with the criminal world and boasting of being at war with society. He started using cannabis and cocaine again, with psychomotor restlessness, high aggressiveness and megalomaniacal mystical delusions, being admitted to the emergency room after being taken by the police (first admission in 2000) and needing a new admission later to control his hyperthymia and verbiage, as soon as he was released he resumed cannabis use and stopped taking his medication. With the prescribed neuroleptics, the symptoms subsided, presenting normal behaviour after discharge from the second admission.
On leaving the hospital, he restarted using cannabis again. He began to work in the building industry and immediately gave it up because he considered it too hard. He stopped the medication and remained on it for about 3 months until his behaviour suddenly changed again, according to his parents, when he started going out and increased his cannabis consumption and resumed cocaine use, requiring a new admission in a situation of agitation, a state of agitation, a state of being out of control, verbose, aggressive and with an expansive mood (third admission in 2003). He was discharged with the same diagnoses and under treatment with haloperidol, suspending the medication again as soon as he left.
Subsequently, he went to Santander where he remained stable for a year, keeping a job in the hotel and catering business and subsequently entering a state of depressive isolation, without going out in the street, with the blinds down and only receiving visits from his parents who provided him with food and other necessities as, according to him, he has a "phobia of the street".
In 2005, he returned to Madrid as they could not maintain the situation and he started to go out again, resuming cannabis consumption, inappropriate behaviour: slashing the tyres of the police, assaulting the police and neighbours, with escapes of ideas and manifesting behaviour, for which a new forced admission was made (fourth in 2005). He was diagnosed with cannabis dependence, antisocial personality disorder and probable manic-depressive psychosis (in this episode he did not report cocaine use, and toxicological tests were negative for this substance). After discharge, he was treated with lithium and olanzapine and was referred to a therapeutic community, where for 6 months he remained abstinent and his mood was stable, although he took his medication irregularly as he threw it away in secret. When he was discharged (2006) he went back to Santander, where for 18 months he suffered the same isolation and on his return to Madrid he repeated the same pattern of increasingly inappropriate and violent behaviour, requiring a restraining order against his mother after assaulting her. He started various courses: renewable energies, driving licence, courses that do not exist... He says he wants to set up a company, loses all his belongings: clothes, keys, transport pass... and wanders all night without sleeping "because he is the head of the mafia and he has to control", which is why he requires a new admission (fifth, year 2008). On discharge, he refused to go to the Mental Health Centre because he had had an episode of acute dystonia after the administration of depot neuroleptics and did not consider that he had any psychiatric illness, although he did recognise his problem of drug use, to which he blamed all his symptoms, which is why he agreed to go to the Drug Dependency Care Centre.

Examination on arrival at the centre
The patient showed himself to be cooperative, with a neat appearance, oriented, verbose, with an expansive mood but capable of long life in relation to "doing what others want me to do and not what I want" and "aggressive episodes" in relation to drug use. He presented a basic bizarre ideation related to the marginal world in which he had developed, he recognised "going against society because I don't like it and this satisfies me". No awareness of psychiatric illness and partial awareness of the consumption of intoxicants, which is currently 6-8 "joints"/day and 6 "Red Bull". He planned to stop taking drugs on his birthday in order to be able to drive again, as his licence had been withdrawn.

Evolution
Taking into account the patient's history and poor adherence to treatment, as well as his lack of awareness of the problem, we decided to prioritise the creation of a good therapeutic bond and achieve abstinence from intoxicants, in order to subsequently try to introduce drugs. He has been abstinent for a month now, refuses to take medication but his mood is stable and he has been able to start a course on renewable energies with good results. All our work is aimed at raising awareness of his psychiatric problems and the ease of decompensation in the face of drug use, as well as the need for pharmacological treatment, which he is beginning to admit due to his desire to get his driving licence back and, for this, he needs a report of abstinence from drugs and psychopathological stability.

Diagnostic judgement
Axis I: Cannabis dependence. Cocaine abuse. Induced manifestations of seizures versus bipolar disorder.
Axis II: Antisocial personality disorder.
