Personal history
The patient had no known drug allergies, cardiovascular risk factors or medical or surgical history of interest. She had been resident in Cameroon for two months and was not taking antimalarial chemoprophylaxis correctly.

Present illness
Twelve days after his return from Cameroon, he started an episode of general malaise, together with a feverish syndrome (up to 40oC), predominantly in the evening, accompanied by profuse sweating. He also presented with arthromyalgia and nausea. She had no other accompanying symptoms of interest.

Physical examination
She was in fair general condition, conscious and oriented, with mucocutaneous pallor, normohydrated, eupneic at rest, with blood pressure 100/60 mmHg, febrile, with a temperature of 39oC and arterial oxygen saturation of 95% with FiO2 of 21%.
There were no palpable lymph nodes and cardiac and pulmonary auscultation was normal. On palpation of the abdomen there were no masses, no organomegaly, and no tender points on superficial and deep palpation. Bilateral renal fist percussion was negative. There was no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis in the extremities and the neurological examination was normal.

Complementary examinations
Haemocyte count on admission showed: leukocytes 5,750/μL (93.2% neutrophils; 4.3% lymphocytes; 1.3% monocytes; 0.5% eosinophils); red blood cells 4,920,000/μL; haemoglobin 14.3 g/dL; haematocrit 40.3%; MCV 81.9 fl; platelets 164,000/μL. Two days after admission, the results were: haemoglobin 11.6 g/dL; haematocrit 32.7%; platelets 48,000/μL. The most important biochemical determinations were ALT 183 U/L; AST 157 U/L; LDH 862 U/L; total bilirubin 3.03 mg/dL and direct bilirubin 2.16 mg/ dL. The rest of the parameters were within normal limits, including the proteinogram. The coagulation study on admission showed a prothrombin activity of 100% and 60% two days after admission. Urine sediment, three blood cultures, urine culture and chest X-ray were normal or negative. Abdominal ultrasound showed a normal liver and mild splenomegaly. Hepatitis markers were as follows: hepatitis C negative; hepatitis B HBs antigen negative; anti-HBs antibody positive, anti-HBc antibody positive. Bone marrow aspirate showed little haemophagocytosis. Reticular and macrophagic cells were observed in somewhat high numbers together with some giant cells.

Diagnostic test
Intra-erythrocytic Plasmodium falciparum parasites were observed in the peripheral blood smear.

Clinical judgement
Plasmodium falciparum malaria.

Evolution
The patient was treated with quinine sulphate (650 mg every eight hours) and doxycycline (100 mg every twelve hours) for one week. Initially, the patient had a torpid evolution, with a decrease in prothrombin activity requiring vitamin K and a progressive decrease in platelet counts, requiring treatment with intravenous gamma globulin. Subsequently, the fever subsided, the above-mentioned figures normalised and she was discharged from hospital. She was reviewed at the outpatient clinic two months later, and was found to be asymptomatic.
