23-year-old woman, with no known drug allergies and no toxic habits. The patient had no personal or family medical history of interest and was not taking any medication on a regular basis. She consulted for three lesions on the dorsum of the left hand and one lesion on the border of the right hand. The lesions were circular and ulcerated, approximately three centimetres in diameter. In addition, he had multiple subcutaneous nodules all over the left arm. He reported no fever or other symptoms.
In the anamnesis, the patient referred to a recent trip to Colombia during which he had travelled both in the north and south of the country, returning to Spain three weeks before the examination, and during the trip he had suffered mosquito bites in the areas of the lesions. After an initial assessment in the emergency department, the patient had been treated with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, as it was diagnosed as a bacterial superinfection of insect bites, with some improvement of the lesions, which she had scratched.
On examination, cardiorespiratory auscultation was normal, as was abdominal palpation and the rest of the systemic examination. Blood tests showed normal haemogram, ESR 14 mm/h, glucose 81 mg/dl, normal renal and hepatic function, CRP 5.63 mg/dl and negative serology for HBV, HCV and HIV. Urinalysis was normal. In view of the dermatological lesions and the absence of systemic symptoms, a differential diagnosis of multiple nodular ulcerative lesions related to insect bites, which could be from the country of origin, was considered.

Differential diagnosis 
The diagnostic clues pointing to cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) are: chronicity, location of lesions in exposed areas, clustering of lesions, orientation of lesions along dermal ridges, inflammatory satellite papules, subcutaneous induration, well-defined ulcerations with indurated borders, subcutaneous nodules. With the eminently clinical and epidemiological diagnosis of probable cutaneous leishmaniasis, versus less probable atypical mycobacteriosis, a skin biopsy was performed and treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid until the results of the biopsy. One week later, the lesions persisted after amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, and ecthyma gangrenosum was included in the differential diagnosis. Doxycycline was prescribed. The biopsy report revealed LC. Treatment was started with paramomycin and a PCR was performed to identify Leishmania sp.

Final diagnosis
Localised cutaneous leishmaniasis with evidence of risk of progression to mucosal and systemic leishmaniasis.

Evolution
Given the lack of response to topical treatment and the criteria of high risk of mucosal-systemic involvement (country of origin, number of lesions, size, location...), parenteral treatment was decided instead of intralesional treatment, specifically glucantime (meglumine antimoniate), with a dosage of 20 mg/kg/d im for 20 days, after a gestation test which was negative (to be confirmed given the teratogenicity of antimonials). At the same time, given the possibility of superinfection, cloxacillin was prescribed for 10 days, followed by treatment with betadine and topical mupirocin. An evaluation by Otolaryngology showed no pharyngeal, laryngeal or nasal involvement. The administration of glucantime was monitored by means of an electrocardiogram, haemogram, renal function, liver function, amylase and lipase, in view of the possibility of possible secondary effects. After several weeks of treatment, the species was identified as Leishmania donovani complex, detected by PCR and sequencing. After 21 days of treatment, the patient showed a good evolution of the skin lesions. Eight weeks after the end of glucantime treatment, the lesions worsened, with a new elevation of the lesion border, even increasing in size compared to the initial lesions, with inflammatory signs, but without lymphangitis. Given the failure of glucantime, treatment with liposomal amphotericin B at a dose of 3 mg/kg/d was started. With the first infusion of liposomal amphotericin B, he developed a severe anaphylactic reaction and treatment was discontinued. At that time, treatment with oral miltefosine 150 mg/24 hours for 4 weeks was decided. The patient progressed well with this line, to which cryotherapy was added. The patient has not presented new activity data after a follow-up of more than 3 months and the control biopsy performed at the end of the treatment is negative.
