An 85-year-old woman attended the emergency department with dyspnoea, sustained fever of 39oC and purulent expectoration of two days' duration. Her medical history included arterial hypertension, polymyalgia rheumatica, osteoarthritis of the hip and bilateral phakectomy. Physical examination revealed multiple ecchymosis on the trunk and lower extremities, tachypnoea at rest and basal oxygen saturation 89-90%. Pulmonary auscultation revealed rhonchi and generalised wheezing in both hemithorax.
Laboratory tests showed elevated acute phase reactants (CRP, procalcitonin and leukocytes), impaired renal function (Creatinine 1.55mg/ dL), prolonged TTPa (74 s) and partial respiratory failure (pO2 55 mmHg, pCO2 36 mmHg). Chest X-ray with no radiological findings of interest. In addition, taking into account the time of year, a test for respiratory viruses was carried out and the results were positive for influenza A.
Hospitalisation in the Internal Medicine Department was decided and oseltamivir was started, adjusted to her renal function. Twelve hours after admission, he presented frank haematuria with haemocyte repercussions, requiring transfusion support. Control laboratory tests showed worsening of aPTT (94 s). Platelet count, PT and prothrombin activity within normal parameters. The presence of a circulating inhibitor was suspected and confirmed by a mixture study. Initial TTPa 74 s, Initial mixing 32 s and Mixing after 1 hour incubation 42 s. Additional studies confirmed the presence of FVIII inhibitor, FVIII activity of less than 5% and Bethesda of 29. Treatment was started with recombinant Factor VII and methylprednisolone (0.5mg/kg IV every 24 hours), dose adjusted for active infectious process. Extension studies were completed, ruling out active neoplasia with a thoraco-abdominal-pelvic CT scan and negative tumour markers. The autoimmunity profile was also negative. Microbiological studies and serology for hepatotropic viruses and human immunodeficiency were negative. During the course of the patient's evolution, he presented urinary tract infection by E. coli with no resistance to antibiotics. Once the viral process was controlled and the oseltamivir regimen was completed, cyclophosphamide was added to the treatment for acquired haemophilia. Subsequently, Factor VIII levels recovered to 59% and TTPa normalised with disappearance of the inhibitor (image 1). In view of this situation, the patient was discharged with initial symptoms resolved and no evidence of new haemorrhagic complications. He continued weekly outpatient controls and completed 6 weeks of immunosuppressive treatment.
