We present the case of a 52-year-old male, with no known drug allergies, smoker of 60 packs/year, drinker of more than 70 g of alcohol per day and injecting drug user (IDU) undergoing methadone withdrawal treatment. He was diagnosed with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in 1993, with last stage A2, starting antiretroviral treatment with stavudine (d4T), didanosine (ddI) and nevirapine (NVP) with no adherence to it, subsequent abandonment, and poor attendance at regular check-ups, without presenting opportunistic infections or other diseases defining acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). At his last check-up (October 2014), he had a CD4 lymphocyte count of 500-749 cells/mm3 and a viral load of less than 10,000 copies/ml. He was also diagnosed with cirrhosis of the liver (Child A) due to chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1-A infection, for which he initially underwent treatment with pegylated interferon and ribavirin with a good response, which was finally suspended in May 2014 due to poor compliance. Elastometry, stage F4 (49 Kpa), and ultrasound were requested (the latter not performed by the patient), with the last virological load control in October 2014 quantified at 4,000,000 IU/ml. He also had a history of self-limited episodes of palpable purpuric vasculitic lesions in acral areas with the presence of positive cryoglobulins, compatible with mixed cryoglobulinaemia, under study and follow-up by Dermatology.

The patient came to the emergency department of our centre in January 2015, brought by his relative, who reported a significant deterioration in his general condition, bradypsychia, bradypilepsy and disorientation for about three days, with the appearance of purpuric dermatological lesions with accompanying oedema and erythema on the hands, elbows and lower limbs in the last 24 hours. On arrival at the emergency department, he presented with poor general condition, with temporospatial disorientation, incoherent speech and somnolence, with 12 points on the Glasgow scale, ocular response to verbal stimuli and no response to orders or ability to collaborate. He showed signs of dehydration on skin and mucous membranes, with haemodynamic stability (blood pressure 111/80 mmHg and heart rate 62 bpm), and remained afebrile with a tendency to hypothermia (35.4oC). Neurologically, there was no evidence of nuchal rigidity or other meningeal signs, with isochoric and normoreactive pupils and preserved extrinsic ocular movements, with no other appreciable neurological deficits and flexor plantar cutaneous reflexes. Cardiopulmonary examination revealed rhythmic and pure cardiac tones, without audible murmurs, and preserved vesicular murmur without added pathological noises, eupneic with pulse oximetry of 98% on room air. The abdomen is soft and depressible, with no apparent tender points or signs of peritonism, with palpation of hepatomegaly of about 3 cm below the costal margin and preserved hydro-aerial sounds. There were maculopapular and blistering violaceous dermatological lesions on the hands and feet with accompanying oedema and erythema. Additional tests included a complete blood count, coagulation, biochemistry, venous blood gases, electrocardiogram, chest X-ray and serial blood cultures. Analytically, leukocytosis of 25050 cells/mm3 with 17443 neutrophils/mm3, lengthening of coagulation times with INR at 3.6, discrete acidosis (pH 7.33, pCO2 36.9 mmHg and HCO3 19. 5 mmol/l), hypoglycaemia (39 mg/dl) and elevated plasma levels of creatinine (2.94 mg/dl), urea (198 mg/dl), potassium (7.2 mEq/l), CPK (1108 U/L), LDH (1150 U/L), GOT (244 U/L), lactate (4.1 mmol/l), procalcitonin (2.2 ng/ ml) and CRP (132.22 mg/l). Chest X-ray and ECG showed no pathological findings.

Differential diagnosis
The patient was HIV/HCV co-infected with poor adherence to treatment and presented with acute encephalopathy associated with severe deterioration of his general condition, palpable and blistering purpuric skin lesions, erythematous-violaceous lesions on the extremities, a significant elevation of acute phase reactants (neutrophilia, CRP and procalcitonin) and multi-organ failure due to acute or exacerbated chronic renal and hepatic insufficiency. First, in the event of acute meningitis, early empirical antibiotic therapy is administered with intravenous (iv) cefotaxime 2g and dexamethasone. In the event of severe sepsis with probable focus in soft tissue or central nervous system, associated with multi-organ failure, empirical antibiotic therapy is extended with ampicillin and vancomycin, maintaining cefotaxime and corticotherapy. Regarding the encephalopathy, whatever the primary condition in this case, it seems sensible to consider a multifactorial component, and given the patient's chronic HCV infection, even a hepatic predominance of the process with the development of hepatic encephalopathy can be considered. Nor can the presence of an opportunistic infection, an HIV-associated entity or even an AIDS-defining disease be ruled out at this point, and it should be remembered that the patient is an active consumer of intravenous toxins. Finally, we must not forget the possibility that the current symptoms may be secondary to the suspected mixed cryoglobulinaemia in this patient.

Evolution
In the hours following his admission for observation, the patient developed progressive deterioration of his general and analytical condition, with a tendency towards hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnoea and worsening of the encephalopathic symptoms and the dermatological lesions, which became widespread in the extremities and intensely painful, Most of the lesions were blisters on an erythematous-violaceous background, while others were necrotic in content, some showing a solution of continuity and loss of substance with slight bleeding, along with others with a scar-like appearance of pinkish colouring and palpable purpuric lesions on the thighs and arms. Assessment by the Intensive Care Department was requested, which indicated admission to the Intensive Care Unit.

During the first hours of admission to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), thrombocytopenia (76,000 platelets) associated with the lengthening of coagulation times detected in the Emergency Department was observed, which was maintained during admission, and therefore it was decided not to perform a lumbar puncture or other invasive diagnostic techniques. He was assessed jointly by the Infectious Diseases, Dermatology and Intensive Care departments to coordinate a therapeutic strategy, deciding to maintain the aforementioned empirical antibiotherapy, adding antiretroviral therapy with doluteglavir, tenofovir and emtricitabine and postponing the start of specific treatment for HCV depending on the patient's recovery. It was also decided to start treatment with cyclophosphamide due to the high suspicion of cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. Similarly, antibiotic prophylaxis was started given the patient's baseline pathology in the absence of stable treatment. 72 hours after admission to hospital, Microbiology reported yeast growth in the blood cultures taken on admission, so empirical treatment with caspofungin was started. Finally, the fungus was identified as Candida albicans, but the focus of the fungus was not elucidated, and antifungal treatment was de-escalated to fluconazole. On the sixth day of admission, Mycobiology again reported the growth of methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus in the blood cultures initially extracted. The patient was assessed by the Ophthalmology department, which found no alterations in the fundus examination; Cardiology, which performed transthoracic echocardiography, detecting significant pulmonary hypertension (80mmHg) with dilatation of the right chambers, dilated left atrium, preserved systolic function and absence of intracavitary lesions; and Rheumatology, which reported cryoglobulinemic vasculitis and advised maintaining corticotherapy and treatment with cyclophosphamide. A cranial CT scan was also performed, which was normal, as was the HIV viral load (373,000 copies/ml) and cell count (200 CD4/mm3).

The patient began to progress favourably, with improvement in renal, hepatic and neurological function, dermatological lesions, and a decrease in acute phase reactants. Once stabilised, he was transferred to the Infectious Diseases ward, where he continued to progress favourably until discharge 21 days after admission.

Definitive diagnosis
The patient was discharged with the diagnoses of mixed cryoglobulinaemia secondary to HIV/HCV coinfection with development of severe sepsis of probable soft tissue origin with Candida albicans candidemia and methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia, acute encephalopathy of multifactorial aetiology (hepatic encephalopathy and/or encephalopathy associated with sepsis (EAS).
