This is a 7-year-old male patient, previously healthy, native and resident of Cortijo, Catemaco, Veracruz. He lives with cattle, pigs and poultry. He presented with a clinical picture of 15 days of evolution characterised by fever of up to 39.5 °C, predominantly in the afternoon, right eyelid oedema, pain in the right hemicara, myalgia in the lower extremities, frontal headache only associated with fever, general malaise and hyporexia. History of insect bite three days earlier (08 September 2007) in the right supraciliary region, which was seen by the mother and referred to as a "bedbug". The patient was assessed by a private doctor in his community and was treated with nimesulide, dicloxacillin and dexamethasone for three days without improvement. Subsequently, he went to the Zapotitla Health Centre from where he was referred to the National Institute of Paediatrics (INP) as periorbital cellulitis (26 September 2007). On admission to the INP, the patient was conscious, calm, with an erythematous and scaly lesion above the right upper eyelid measuring approximately 3x2 cm, non-painful upper eyelid oedema (Romaña-Maza sign), photomotor response and eye movements without compromise, two right submandibular adenomegalies smaller than 1 cm in diameter, mobile and non-painful. Cardiopulmonary function was not compromised, no visceromegaly was found and the extremities were found to be unaltered. 

Blood biometry was performed and reported the following: haemoglobin, 12.5 g/dL; haematocrit, 35%; mean corpuscular volume (MCV), 82.3 fL; mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (MCHbC), 28. 7 q/dL; leukocytes, 10,700 cells/uL; lymphocytes, 69%; neutrophils, 25%; monocytes, 3%; eosinophils, 0%; platelets, 253,000 cells/uL; erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), 34 mm/h; and C-reactive protein (CRP) <0.302 mg/mL. Chest x-ray (Image 3) and electrocardiogram (Image 4) were performed and found to be unaltered. The following serum tests were also performed: sodium, 134 mmo/L; potassium, 4 mmo/L; chlorine, 102 mmo/L; calcium, 9.8 mg/dL; phosphorus, 5 mg/dL; glucose, 109 mg/dL; urea, 17. 1 mg/dL; blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 8 mg/dL; creatinine, 0.5 mg/dL; total bilirubin, 0.5 mg/dL; direct bilirubin, 0.1 mg/dL; indirect bilirubin, 0.4 mg/dL; total protein, 7.1 g/dL; albumin, 2.7 g/dL; globulin, 4. 4 g/dL; triglycerides, 116 mg/dL; cholesterol, 171 mg/dL; aspartate aminotransferase (AST), 65 IU/L; alanine aminotransferase (ALT), 76 IU/L; alkaline phosphatase, 91 IU/L; lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), 550 IU/L; gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT), 24 IU/L; prothrombin partial time (PT), 12. 7 seconds (99%); partial thromboplastin time, 34 seconds; and international normalised ratio (INR), 1.11. The echocardiogram was normal.


The day after the patient's admission, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test was performed to detect IgM antibodies and diagnose Chagas disease, which was reported reactive. In addition, the peripheral blood smear analysed in the parasitology research department showed the presence of trypomastigotes, which is why a study was initiated to detect this agent in the family. A diagnosis of American trypanosomiasis in the acute phase was made, the case was reported to the National Centre for Epidemiological Surveillance and Disease Control (CENAVESE) in Mexico, and treatment was started with nifurtimox at a dose of 5 mg/kg/day orally every 8 hours. The initial dose for 72 hours was well tolerated and subsequently increased to 10 mg/kg/day every 8 hours for 90 days, which was monitored by liver function tests, electrocardiogram and echocardiogram.

The patient presented good evolution, adequate tolerance to the treatment and progressive decrease of his symptomatology. Cardiological evaluation was performed with the help of a chest X-ray and electrocardiogram, which were normal, and an echocardiogram, which showed a structurally healthy heart. Currently, the patient is asymptomatic, completed treatment with nifurtimox and his serological studies for Chagas disease have been reported negative.
