50-year-old woman diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis since 2011, subclinical hypothyroidism, hypovitaminosis D and active smoking (25 cigarettes/day for 34 years). The patient had been on the following treatment since December 2013: etanercept 50 mcg (1 subcutaneous injection/week), methotrexate (10 mg oral every 12 hours on Mondays), folic acid (5 mg on Tuesdays), prednisone (5 mg daily), hydroferol (1 ampoule daily) and conditional analgesia for pain. She was correctly vaccinated against pneumococcus, hepatitis B virus and influenza virus and had a negative Mantoux test prior to starting treatment with anti-TNF-α.

She attended the emergency department for general malaise, myalgias and fever of up to 39oC that had started four days earlier. He also had a cough with purulent expectoration, dyspnoea that had progressed to minimal effort and diarrhoeal stools (2-3 times/day) without pathological products since the onset of the symptoms. During the first hours he presented with frank hypotension refractory to correct hydration, oligoanuria, fever resistant to antipyretics and hypoxaemia (SpO2 90% with a FiO2 of 28%), so the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) was consulted and he was transferred. On arrival, the following analytical results were observed: neutrophilia 97% without leukocytosis, renal function without alteration, mild hyponatraemia (Sodium 132 mEq/L) without other electrolyte alterations, LDH 602 U/l and C-reactive protein 405 mg/l. There was no coagulopathy and venous blood gases showed pH 7.51, pO2 21 mmHg, pCO2 47 mmHg, bicarbonate 16.8 mmol/L and O2 sat 88%. Chest X-ray showed a condensation in the left upper lobe (LSI), well demarcated and with air bronchogram and left basal atelectasis.

Differential diagnosis
The potential opportunistic infections that occur relatively frequently in patients treated with anti-TNF-α drugs are well documented in the literature. The pulmonary involvement of our patient would make tuberculosis one of the main entities to rule out, although fungal infections caused by Aspergillus, Histoplasma, Cryptococcus and Pneumocystis jirovecii, among others, and some bacterial infections such as Legionella and Pneumococcus, or other less common ones, such as Listeria or Nocardia should also form part of the differential diagnosis. Among the viral infections that frequently manifest as pneumonia in these patients, adenovirus, influenza (A and B) and parainfluenza, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV) should be considered. Pulmonary tuberculosis is probably the respiratory infection whose association has been most studied in patients treated with anti-TNF-α. Recent studies showed that Spain and Portugal have substantially higher rates than other European countries in this type of patients. Tuberculosis usually occurs soon after initiation of anti-TNF-α, usually as reactivation of a latent infection, whereas, when it appears late, it would represent (in most cases) a new infection that progresses directly to active disease. The wide range of symptoms it can cause means that it is always part of the differential diagnosis in these cases.

Cryptococcosis (Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii) is an increasingly prevalent invasive fungal infection in immunocompromised patients. The organism is normally found in soil and in high concentrations near bird nests, and inhalation may occur. In animal models of Cryptococcus infection, TNF-α inhibition is associated with impaired recruitment of activated CD4+ T cells and Langerhans cells to the site of infection, leading to an increased risk of dissemination. In addition to affecting the CNS, it can also cause respiratory infections, ranging from asymptomatic to respiratory distress syndrome or pneumonia. Diagnostic tools include: fungal investigation and determination of cryptococcal antigen in serum and, in a large number of cases, analysis of a histological specimen is required.

In pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients, the main culprit is usually Aspergillus fumigatus, and can present with a wide variety of symptoms. The classic triad includes fever, pleuritic pain and haemoptysis. However, the absence of this triad is not uncommon, and the disease should be considered in patients with risk factors in whom chest radiography often reveals pulmonary nodules and/or infiltrates. The diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis is based on isolation of the organism (or markers of the organism such as serum galactomannan), imaging tests and high clinical suspicion.

Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia has been reported in patients treated with TNF-α inhibitors, especially in concomitant immunosuppressive therapy. Transmission occurs via airborne person-to-person contact. Diagnosis should be considered in patients with risk factors (neoplasms, especially haematological, HIV, transplant recipients, patients on immunosuppressive therapy, etc.) who present a compatible radiological picture (interstitial involvement predominantly bilateral perihilar, with reticular or nodular opacities and/or areas of irregular consolidation), and is performed by microscopy by staining a sputum sample (or bronchioalveolar lavage). Listeria monocytogenes is mainly transmitted by consumption of contaminated food and beverages or close contact with animals. The main risk factor is undoubtedly the immunosuppressed state. Although bacteraemia, gastrointestinal or central nervous system infections are more common, there have been cases of pulmonary listeriosis, which usually have a severe prognosis. Definitive diagnosis is obtained by isolation in different culture samples, depending on the clinical picture.

Legionella pneumophila is generally found in humid environments. It is transmitted via the respiratory route and can cause pneumonia with atypical characteristics and symptoms that can be very florid (cough, fever, diarrhoea, hyponatraemia, renal failure, confusion, ataxia, etc.) and can be very serious. In almost 100% of cases there is some radiological alteration on the third day. The most common pattern is an irregular unilobular infiltrate progressing to consolidation, with pleural effusions also common. Diagnosis of infection is based on clinical findings, culture (specificity approximately 100%, but sensitivity variable depending on sputum (60%), blood (40%) or lung biopsy (90%)), antigenuria and direct immunofluorescence visualisation. In recent years, an increasing number of cases of Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection have been detected in adults, especially the elderly. Transmission is airborne and usually occurs epidemically. The clinical features may overlap with those of typical pneumonia, although occasionally there is a characteristic feature, bullous myringitis, which supports the diagnosis. Diagnostic methods include culture, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and serology with IgM and IgG (most common). Several issues can hamper management, such as the time it takes to obtain serology results and the lack of complete correlation that has occurred in different assays when comparing PCR, serology and culture results.

Among the influenza viruses, type A stands out for its potential severity and the possibility of causing pandemics. Although its distribution is usually seasonal, it is not uncommon to find this infection in immunocompromised patients outside the typical seasons. In these cases it is not uncommon to find primary influenza pneumonia (which generally has a very severe prognosis, with a mortality rate of around 80%), which is much rarer in the general population, where the main complication is bacterial pneumonia secondary to influenza infection. Diagnosis can be made by culture, serology, or through rapid diagnostic tests with enzyme immunoassay (EIA), immunofluorescence, or PCR. On the other hand, Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), like influenza, often causes respiratory infections on a seasonal basis. Transmission is also similar, causing an initial involvement of the bronchiole that may progress to pneumonia. Rapid diagnostic methods based on viral PCR are available that detect multiple respiratory viruses simultaneously and rapidly. However, caution is needed in interpretation as up to 15% of healthy people harbour some of these viruses in the respiratory tract.

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a major cause of infections in immunocompromised patients, especially in transplant recipients, either in primary or reactivation form. Therefore, serology (presence of IgM or increased IgG x4) and/or viral load detection by PCR should always be requested.

Evolution
The patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit where vasoactive agents were started as well as empirical antibiotic treatment with levofloxacin 500 mg and ceftriaxone 2 grams.

Serial blood cultures, urine culture, sputum culture, smear microscopy (x3) and Legionella and pneumococcal antigens in urine were requested. In the first 12 hours a positive antigenuria for Legionella was received (with subsequent confirmation by immunofluorescence and after heat treatment of the urine), and a sputum culture was also positive for Legionella in the following days. Treatment was adjusted, maintaining levofloxacin 500 mg/12 hours and replacing cephalosporin with azithromycin 500 mg/24 hours. The rest of the microbiological tests requested were negative.

The evolution was torpid during the first few days with repeated desaturations that made it necessary to initiate High Flow Nasal Oxygen Therapy (HFO) without requiring mechanical ventilation. He also remained dependent on vasoactive agents to maintain a MAP>70 mmHg and presented syncopal symptoms. An echocardiogram showed a mild pericardial effusion and the presence of empyema was ruled out by thoracic ultrasound. Clinically he remained alert and conscious, with orthopnoea and tachypnoea. Cough with purulent expectoration persisted and the intestinal symptoms subsided in the first 24 hours (negative stool culture and Clostridium difficile toxins). On the 5th day, he began to experience progressive improvement, and ONAF and noradrenaline could be withdrawn and the febrile peaks disappeared. Finally, he was transferred to our Infectious Diseases Department after a 10-day stay in the ICU (without azithromycin, which was maintained for 8 days), where he continued to progress favourably and was discharged from hospital. Laboratory tests included: favourable evolution of C-reactive protein (at discharge 32.09 mg/l), initial procalcitonin determination of 5.2 ng/ml (at discharge 0.79 ng/ml), preserved renal function and slight elevation of GPT (57 U/l) and GGT (67 U/l).

Other complementary tests requested: serological tests for Coxiella burnetti, Chlamydia pneumoniae and Mycoplasma, PCR for typing Legionella species (performed in Majadahonda, serotype 1) and chest CT scan with contrast (extensive consolidations in LSI and homolateral lower lobe, with abundant air bronchogram, slight volume loss and bibasal laminar atelectasis.  From the first moment of admission, both anti-TNF-α and methotrexate were withdrawn and the dose of prednisone was increased (30 mg/day), and the patient continued with no evidence of activity of her rheumatoid process. On discharge, she continued treatment with prednisone alone in a descending dosage (as indicated by Rheumatology) and completed treatment with Levofloxacin for a further 6 days. Currently, treatment has been restarted with methotrexate (5 mg oral/12 hours on Mondays) and prednisone 5 mg/24 hours, without the need to restart anti-TNF-α.

Final diagnosis
Septic shock secondary to Legionella multilobar pneumonia in an immunocompromised patient.

