The patient is a 27-year-old male, with no known drug allergies, a butcher by profession, with a history of Bruton's agammaglobulinaemia diagnosed at 4 months of age, on replacement therapy with intravenous immunoglobulin (since November 2015 the dose has been 430 mg/kg every 4 weeks), and asymptomatic. On one occasion he reported presyncopal symptoms related to the immunoglobulin infusion. He has not completed the vaccination schedule. No other history of interest.

Nine days before admission, he began to complain of pain in the left shoulder and a feeling of dystrophy. After visiting the outpatient clinic, he was discharged twice with a diagnosis of trapezius contracture. One week later he presented with fever of 38o, together with swelling and increased local temperature at the cervical level, in the area of the sternoclavicular junction, with continuous pain that was exacerbated by arm movements.
The patient was admitted with the clinical diagnosis of sternoclavicular septic arthritis, and arthrocentesis was impossible, so empirical antibiotic therapy was started with IV cloxacillin (2 g c/4 h) after drawing blood cultures.

On arrival on the ward, the patient was afebrile with good general condition, with BP 120/80, HR 62 bpm, O2 saturation of 99%, normal cardiopulmonary auscultation and marked pain on mobilisation of the left upper limb, with pain of inflammatory characteristics throughout the cervical muscle area on that side and in the sternoclavicular joint, painful on palpation.

The haemogram showed 17000 leukocytes/mm3 with 68% neutrophils, Hb 12.2 g/dl and the blood biochemistry showed CRP 56.5 mg/l, which subsequently rose to 95.7mg/l. A simple chest X-ray was normal, a clavicular CT scan showed inflammatory signs at the level of the sternoclavicular joint (SCJ) and the study was completed with a bone scan that showed increased osteoblastic activity at this level. A puncture of the ACJ was performed and a serosanguinous fluid was obtained and sent for culture.

Differential diagnosis
The patient was immunosuppressed and presented with a clinical syndrome consisting of left-sided omalgia accompanied by fever and inflammatory signs in the ACS. Despite the history of hyperextension of the left upper limb, traumatic aetiology could reasonably be ruled out. The differential diagnosis, therefore, would focus on an arthritic condition at the sternoclavicular level as the first option; and, given the presence of signs of infection, we would first consider the infectious aetiology.
Other entities that should be ruled out are:
- Systemic autoimmune diseases: Joint involvement in rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus usually has a polyarticular and symmetrical distribution, which did not occur in our case. In ankylosing spondyloarthritis, involvement of the sternoclavicular joint has been reported in 14% of cases. The absence of other more characteristic symptoms makes this cause unlikely. Psoriatic arthritis usually presents with oligoarthritis but the patient had no skin manifestations.
- Microcrystalline arthritis: although classically monoarticular, it usually affects joints such as the metatarsophalangeal joint (gout) or the knee (pseudogout).
- Reactive arthritis: the absence of previous infection and monoarticular involvement would in principle rule out this entity, which manifests as peripheral and small joint oligoarthritis.

The main microorganisms described as the cause of ACS arthritis are: Staphylococcus aureus, followed by Pseudomona aeruginosa, Brucella melitensis and Escherichia coli. Of these, Pseudomona aeruginosa has been associated with injecting drug users, and Brucella melitensis, despite the patient's professional background, has been eradicated from our country. In cases of hypogammaglobulinaemia, unusual aetiologies such as Mycoplasma pneumoniae and Ureaplasma urealyticum must be considered. Osteoarticular tuberculosis, which accounts for 10-25% of extrapulmonary TB, has been described in ACS arthritis, although it usually affects the axial skeleton (Pott's disease), followed by the hip and knee. Lyme disease is unlikely due to the absence of previous symptomatology, the absence of erythema migrans and that the patient did not reside in an endemic area or have predisposing recreational activities.

Evolution
After initiation of antibiotic therapy, the clinical course was good, with a decrease in leukocytosis and acute phase reactants, and the patient was discharged home with oral cefadroxil (500 mg every 8 hours), with no apparent complications. We were subsequently informed that blood cultures isolated macrolide-resistant Campylobacter coli with an MIC for ciprofloxacin of 0.125 (no cephalosporins were tested); the culture of the FNA of the ACS was negative. Treatment was changed to ciprofloxacin (750 mg every 12 hours) for a total of 4 weeks of antibiotherapy.

Final diagnosis
Campylobacter coli sternoclavicular arthritis in a patient with Bruton's agammaglobulimemia.
