Personal history
A 43-year-old Spanish man with a history of surgery for right spontaneous pneumothorax and chronic hepatitis C cured with interferon. He reported multiple intercontinental trips, with no apparent health problems: Morocco, Turkey (2005), Patagonia (2005), Gambia (2006, vaccinated against yellow fever, without antimalarial prophylaxis) and two recent trips to Mali, one in November 2006 (vaccinated against hepatitis A, typhoid fever, tetanus-diphtheria and cholera and prophylaxis with atavacuone-proguanil) and the last one in September 2007 (itinerary Bamako - Niger River - Toubouctou - Dogon Country). Here he took the correct antimalarial prophylaxis with doxycycline, but confessed to drinking untreated water and bathing in the Niger River and at the waterfalls in the Dogon Country in the middle of the trip.

Present illness
The patient presented with intermittent high fever (up to 39oC) of twelve days' evolution without focal symptoms, starting in the last days of the trip and accompanied by chills, shivering, arthromylagia and headache, with significant sweating after antipyretics. Her partner had started with similar symptoms 48 hours earlier, of lesser intensity, and both continued with chemoprophylaxis with doxycycline, with apparent good tolerance. On questioning, they reported having presented generalised pruritus lasting several hours after bathing in the Dogon Country waterfalls, without skin lesions and self-limited.

Physical examination
The patient was afebrile, with a blood pressure of 110/70 mmHg, weight 68 kg (usual), right thoracotomy scar and no skin lesions, hepatosplenomegaly or other relevant findings.

Complementary examinations
The haemogram showed 7,200 leukocytes/μL (600 eosinophils, 8%); haemoglobin 14.4 g/dL; 179,000 platelets and the coagulation study was normal. Biochemistry showed GPT 48 IU/L, GOT 24 IU/L, alkaline phosphatase 153 IU/L and total bilirubin 0.3 mg/dL. All other parameters (glycaemia, renal function, ions, proteinogram and urine elemental) were normal. The chest X-ray showed no abnormalities.
The study of parasites in peripheral blood (on two occasions, with febrile peak) was negative, as were serial blood cultures, Rose Bengal, urine culture and stool culture. The stool parasite study (three samples on alternate days) showed only non-pathogenic amoeba cysts. Urine parasite analysis (three samples every other day) was also negative.

Initial evolution
Given the negative results of the initial studies, a wait-and-see attitude was adopted, recommending only antipyretic treatment (paracetamol) and serological studies were requested (dengue virus, Rickettsia spp., Coxiella, Brucella, Strongyloides, Toxocara, Schistosoma, Fasciola, chikungunya virus and amoebae). Seventeen days after returning from the trip, and seven days after the first consultation, the patient consulted again due to the appearance of generalised urticaria in the last 24 hours and persistent fever. On examination, he was afebrile and haemodynamically stable, with generalised urticarial lesions predominantly on the back, buttocks and flanks, with no mucosal involvement, evidence of bronchospasm, regional adenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly. An urgent blood test was performed at this time, showing 700 eosinophils/μL (12.2%), IgE 24.7 IU/mL (normal values <100 IU/mL), GPT 42 IU/L, CRP 36 mg/L and ESR 12 mm/h.

Diagnostic test
Serology against Schistosoma spp. positive.

Clinical judgement
Acute schistosomiasis (Katayama syndrome).

Evolution
With suspicion of acute schistosomiasis (Katayama syndrome or fever), treatment was started with praziquantel (20 mg/kg/8 hours oral) for 72 hours,
associated with antihistamines, with good tolerance and disappearance of symptoms and an initial increase and subsequent normalisation of the eosinophil count: 4,000 eosinophils/μL (42.6%); 700 eosinophils/μL (9.6%); and finally 400 eosinophils/μL (4.7%). The first serology sample for Schistosoma spp. extracted during the acute phase and performed at the National Microbiology Centre in Majadahonda was negative, and a new sample sent three months later was positive. The rest of the serological studies were negative. One year later, the patient is asymptomatic, without peripheral eosinophilia and with negative serial studies (at three, six and twelve months) for parasites in faeces and urine. His travel partner, who had accompanied him on the trip to Gambia in 2006 and on the second trip to Mali (September 2007), presented 10-15 days after returning from the trip with a similar picture, with self-limited fever without urticaria, with mild eosinophilia (600 eosinophils/μL, 11.3%) and negative first serology for schistosomiasis. In April 2008, six months after his return, a complete colonoscopy was performed up to the terminal ileum due to the appearance of rectorrhagia and an increase in his usual constipation. Macroscopically, multiple discontinuous raised lesions of the mucosa were observed in the rectum and distal sigma (up to 30 centimetres from the anal margin), very friable to the touch and less than 2 centimetres in diameter, alternating with depressed and ulcerated areas. Biopsies showed ulceration of the mucosa due to a granulomatous foreign body reaction by Schistosoma spp. eggs in the lamina propria and epithelium. At this time the patient had mild eosinophilia (400 eosinophils/μL, 7%), mild iron deficiency anaemia (haemoglobin 10.6 g/dL, ferritin 8 μg/L) and a pathological urine sediment (microhaematuria and leucocyturia). Parasitological examination of both urine and faeces detected Schistosoma haematobium eggs (more abundant in urine), with a positive miracidium viability test. Serology for Schistosoma was also positive. With the diagnosis of intestinal and urinary schistosomiasis, he was prescribed treatment with praziquantel (a single dose of 60 mg/kg divided into two doses), with subsequent disappearance of the eosinophilia (200/μL, 3.4%), negativisation of egg excretion in faeces and urine, and remission of the inflammatory lesions of the distal intestinal mucosa in a new colonoscopy performed three months later. For our patient with Katayama syndrome, and given the doubts about the activity of praziquantel against non-adult forms of the parasite, the patient received a new course of treatment with a single dose of 60 mg/kg (divided in two doses) six months after the initial acute schistosomiasis.
