CLINICAL HISTORY
A 64-year-old man consulted for progressive dyspnoea of one month's duration. He began with a fever of 39oC and dry cough, for which he was treated for a week with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid and oral corticosteroids; the fever disappeared but the dry cough persisted, and he returned to the emergency department for progressive dyspnoea until minimal effort (functional class III/IV), accompanied by cough, pleuritic pain and mild haemoptysis; without clinical improvement despite treatment after three weeks of evolution.

Personal history
Patient was a former mine worker. Well-controlled hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Ex-smoker and moderate ex-drinker. In 2002 he was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukaemia undergoing treatment with cycles of chemotherapy and intensified treatment with autologous haematopoietic progenitor transplant. Since then he has been in complete remission of his haematological disease with follow-up by the external consultation of the haematology service, and at the time of the picture he was untreated for this reason.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
On admission, the patient had a basal oxygen saturation of 87%; BP 100/80 mmHg; temperature 36.8oC; heart rate 70 bpm. Conscious and oriented; skin pallor, good hydration; strength, sensitivity and reflexes preserved, without meningeal signs or neurological focality. Tachypnoea and intolerance to decubitus stood out, with normal jugular venous pressure. There was abolition of the murmur in the right pulmonary apex, with the presence of rhonchi and bibasal crackles predominantly on the right. Oedema with malleolar fovea in both lower limbs. On abdominal palpation there was a discrete splenomegaly. There were bilateral axillary lymphadenopathies.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood count: leukocytes 4.5 x 109/L, segmented 2.94 x 109/L, haemoglobin 14.3 g/dL, platelets (microscopic count) 180 x 109/L, reticulocytes 1.6%. Peripheral blood smear: platelet aggregates are observed. No blasts or significant pathological findings were observed. Biochemical profile: glucose 199 mg/dL, triglycerides 171 mg/dL, rest normal. Baseline arterial blood gases: pH 7.43; pO2 87.9 mmHg; pCO2 48 mmHg; HCO3 31.8 mmol/L; EB 6.6. Chest X-ray: cavitated image in L.S.D. Antigenuria against Legionella and Pneumococcus were also negative.

DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS IN THE EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT
When pneumonia is suspected, the presence of other diseases with similar symptoms and signs should be ruled out, such as tuberculosis, congestive heart failure, pulmonary thromboembolism, atelectasis, allergic pneumonitis, lung damage due to drugs and/or radiotherapy, lung cancer, sarcoidosis and others.

EVOLUTION
Given the suspicion of infection as the cause of the symptoms, the patient was given bronchodilators and broad-spectrum antibiotics (intravenous ceftazidime and amikacin). During his admission he remained afebrile, but his clinical condition progressively worsened, and the following tests were performed: Chest CT scan: image with areas of cavitation in the external region of the caudal half of the right upper lobe, suggestive of fungal superinfection or epidermoid carcinoma of the lung or pulmonary TB, with signs of air trapping and pulmonary infiltrates in the right hemithorax, both in the LS and lower lobe. Bronchoscopy: bronchial tree with erythema in L.S.D. without images suggestive of malignancy; Serial bronchial aspirate bronchoscopy: negative. Sputum mycobacterial culture: negative; Sputum × 3 and bronchial aspirate cytology: inflammatory smear with absence of cells suggestive of malignancy. Serology for M. pneumoniae, C. pneumoniae, C. Burnetti and L. pneumophila: negative. Echocardiography with no significant findings. After bronchoscopy, the patient suffered an episode of severe bronchospasm, requiring the use of high doses of systemic corticosteroids and aerosols. After stabilisation, a week later, the bronchoscopy was repeated, showing a diffusely inflamed, thickened mucosa with a fine vascular network, and a new BAS was taken for microbiology and pathological anatomy. After antibiotic treatment, bronchodilators and systemic corticoids, the patient initially improved, but a week later, he began to experience an increase in his usual dyspnoea, until he became resting with cough, yellowish expectoration and pleuritic pain in the left hemithorax accompanied by orthopnoea and desaturation, with tachypnoea, use of accessory muscles, labial and acral cyanosis and severe diffuse bronchospasm, with no significant radiological changes. 48 h after fibrobronchoscopy, Microbiology reported the growth of a filamentous fungus in the culture media, identified as Aspergillus niger. Given the suspicion of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, due to the poor clinical evolution of the patient, the microbiological and cytological findings and the risk factors he presented (broad spectrum antibiotherapy and prolonged systemic corticotherapy at high doses), treatment was started with voriconazole (400 mg/12 h iv. followed by 200 mg /12 h iv.). Despite specific treatment, the patient's respiratory condition worsened, with severe bronchospasm, forcing an increase in high-dose systemic corticosteroids and O2 with 100% FiO2. The patient developed severe plateletopenia (<50,000) and diarrhoeal syndrome secondary to voriconazole treatment, right heart failure, acute respiratory failure and died.
