Anamnesis
A 42-year-old woman, with no personal or family history of interest, attended the dermatology emergency department for an insect bite on the right hand 5 days earlier. She reported that, while cleaning the storeroom at home, she noticed a bite on the back of her hand and then, when she shook it, she saw an insect fall to the ground which she described as a small brown spider with a darker area on the back. A few hours after the bite, she began to experience pain, oedema and erythema of the right hand and forearm with difficulty in flexing her fingers due to the intense pain, and 24 hours later she developed a pruritic centrifugal rash, general malaise and generalised arthralgias, without fever and without associated respiratory or digestive symptoms. Her primary care physician prescribed treatment with a dose of parenteral methylprednisolone, analgesics and oral antihistamines. After 3 days, the symptoms persisted and she was referred to our department.

Physical examination
On physical examination, she was afebrile, eupneic and haemodynamically stable. On the dorsum of the right hand there was an erythematous macule with poorly defined purplish borders and a whitish-yellowish centre, with faint erythema and minimal oedema in the perilesional area, with no increase in local temperature. There was some reduction in the mobility of the fingers due to the intense pain, with no associated loss of strength or sensation. There was no joint swelling or subcutaneous crepitus. He also had generalised macular rash with involvement of the face, trunk, extremities and palms of both hands, without petechiae or ecchymosis. There was no involvement of oral or genital mucosa and no palpable lymph nodes in accessible lymph node chains.

Complementary tests
Samples were taken for blood count, biochemistry, blood coagulation and serology, as well as an X-ray of the right hand, indicated by traumatology. The haemogram showed minimal leukocytosis with a predominance of neutrophils and slight lymphopenia, with no alterations in the eosinophil count. Haemoglobin, red blood cell count, haemostasis and coagulation were unaltered. CRP slightly increased. Biochemistry, hepatorenal profile and ions were normal. HIV, syphilis, Borrellia burgdoferi, Rickettsia and Leishmania serologies were negative. The right hand X-ray showed no space-occupying lesions or radiological evidence of osteomyelitis.

Diagnosis
Arachnid bite, probably by brown recluse spider with associated systemic symptoms.

Treatment
Treatment was prescribed with a descending dose of oral prednisone, analgesics and antihistamines on demand and periodic treatment of the lesion with disinfection and application of a topical corticosteroid and antibiotic preparation. It was decided to discharge the patient home with clinical and analytical control at 72 hours, indicating symptoms and warning signs for which to return to the emergency department.

Evolution
At subsequent visits, at 72 hours and 7 days, a progressive and sustained improvement in both local and systemic symptoms was observed, with no notable analytical alterations.
