An 86-year-old man came to the emergency department with deterioration of general condition, fever and a progressive lesion in the right hemicara of 12 hours' evolution.

His medical history included: long-standing type 2 diabetes mellitus with suboptimal glycaemic control (HbA1c 8.4%) treated with metformin (850mg/8h), arterial hypertension treated with ARA-II, atrial fibrillation (AF) treated with diltiazem (60mg/12h) and anticoagulated with acenocoumarol. The patient was independent for instrumental activities of daily living.

He reported having shaved that morning with an electric shaver (which did not generate incised wounds) as usual. During the course of the day, a 2 cm diameter, indurated, purplish, non-pruritic, ill-defined, non-pruritic right malar papule appeared.
The lesion appeared 30 minutes after her arrival at the emergency department, 12 hours after the initial appearance. Right malar lesion of 5 cm in extension, indurated, violaceous, non-pruritic and ill-defined, with progressive addition of multiple intralesional vesicles, without fluctuating areas.

Within 10 hours, multiple intralesional vesicles appeared, together with a fever peak of 38oC, which led the patient to the emergency department. During his half-hour stay, and after the administration of 50mg of IV dexketoprofen, the lesion progressed to occupy almost the entire right hemiface and the formation of tension blisters with serohaematic content, approximately 1 cm in diameter and necrotic background, in the malar region; and a new febrile peak.

Lesion 15 hours after arrival at the emergency department. Progression of the lesion with extension to almost the entire right hemiface and submandibular space, together with growth of tension blisters with serohaematic content of more than 1 cm in size on an indurated plaque with a purplish background. All this was compatible with rapidly progressive right malar cellulitis.

On physical examination the patient remained haemodynamically stable with BP 141/71; HR 130, eupneic, Ta 38.3oC and Glasgow 13. The affected area did not show fluctuating areas, nor was it excessively painful. There were reactive cervical lymphadenopathies, without compromising the mobility of the cervical area or the airway.

Blood tests showed: glycaemia 274 mg/dl, 15,700 leukocytes/mm3 with a left shift and CRP 240 mg/L. The ECG showed AF with rapid ventricular response. Blood cultures were taken with and without fever, and cefazolin 500mg/8h IV and clindamycin 900mg/8h IV were started empirically. Intraflictene fluid was collected (by puncture, serum wash and aspiration) for urgent Gram staining and culture.

Within 3 hours of arrival at the ED it was reported that the Gram's stain showed positive cocci in a chain reaction. Given the high possibility of necrotic infection by S. pyogenes, it was decided to change cefazolin for penicillin G 4 mU/4h IV. At 24 hours of evolution the lesion did not show deep progression, nor did it exceed the already delimited superficial limits. It was decided to perform a superficial cleaning at the bedside with removal of the phlyctenas, revealing devitalised but not necrotic subcutaneous tissue.

After 36 hours of evolution, the patient began to experience sudden dyspnoea, desaturation, lisping voice, and progression of the lesion to the ipsilateral submandibular and laterocervical level with impaction to the contralateral cervical area. IV corticotherapy was started, and he was assessed by the ENT department, which ruled out airway compromise by fibroscopy. Computed tomography (CT) of the neck with contrast showed cellulitis of the hemiface and right lateral cervical region, with a phlegmonous collection measuring 40x16x33mm adjacent to the external margin of the masticator space and the right parotid, extending to the supraclavicular fossa. The patient was assessed by Maxillofacial and Plastic Surgery, who ruled out urgent surgery due to the absence of drainable collections.

Differential diagnosis
Given the rapid evolution of the lesion and the signs of systemic toxicity (fever, tachycardia, leukocytosis, elevated CRP), bacterial aetiology was assumed as the first option, ruling out others such as fungi or viruses. Even so, the location of the lesion makes it necessary to consider aetiologies such as actinomycosis of odontogenic focus, which is involved in cellulitis of the neck and head, but with a much more prolonged course. The participation of specific micro-organisms with very specific environmental antecedents, also with an abrupt and severe evolution, can be considered, such as: Aeromonas hydrophila (contact with fresh water), Vibrio vulnificus (brackish water, shellfish, cirrhotic patients), Bacillus anthracis (sheep, with anthrax being the characteristic lesion), Pasteurella multocida (cat or dog bite), Erysipelothrix rhusopathiae (plant trauma, with slow evolution), etc. In the absence of these antecedents and the history of minor trauma with shaving, it seems appropriate to disregard these agents in a first approach.

Non-infectious causes such as inflammatory diseases (pyoderma gangrenosum) or drug-induced exanthema are ruled out due to the lack of a history of diseases associated with connective tissue or a new introduction of drugs, or a change in drug dosage. In addition, there is a need for rapid action in the face of a probable rapidly progressive bacterial infection. We are therefore faced with a skin and soft tissue infection (STBI) of abrupt onset, with systemic repercussions, secondary to a traumatic trigger and with a rapid evolution.

The classification of IPPB is not unanimous, but we can establish several groups: uncomplicated infections, complicated infections, and the most severe ones: necrotising fasciitis and myonecrosis. In each case, we must consider the possible causative microbiological agent in order to determine the best course of action and treatment. The rapid evolution, the systemic and airway involvement, and the history of poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, makes it appropriate to classify it as complicated IPPB, requiring observation and intravenous antibiotic treatment.

Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes are the most frequently isolated germs in community-acquired cellulitis, so empirical treatment should be effective for both. Although clinically difficult to distinguish, S. aureus infection tends to have a more prolonged progression, between 48-72h. However, methicillin-resistant S. aureus strains, which produce Panton-Valentine leukocidin as a virulence factor, cause rapidly progressive necrotising skin infections despite adequate treatment. Group B Streptococcus spp. are a cause of cellulitis in the elderly with comorbidity, but not as frequently as Group A Streptococcus (Streptococcus pyogenes), which manifests as a particularly aggressive form of cellulitis with early constitutional symptoms (fever, chills and malaise) and rapid progression of the lesion borders. Part of this virulence is secondary to the production of exotoxins released into tissues, which promote apoptosis of immune cells leading to tissue destruction and, in extreme cases, streptococcal toxic shock syndrome.

Therefore, it seems reasonable to consider S. pyogenes as a potential aetiology of the case presented here. Enterobacteriaceae, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, are less frequent in the community, being more typical of immunocompromised patients or of nosocomial origin, with a less aggressive picture than that of our patient. Likewise, the polymicrobial origin of the picture is less likely, bearing in mind that the point of entry is the skin of the facial region, and not intrabuccal, where polymicrobial flora predominates, both gram-positive and gram-negative, together with anaerobes.

The most severe cases of IPPB, necrotising fasciitis and myonecrosis, affect not only the dermis and subcutaneous cellular tissue, but also extend through the anatomical fasciae and/or muscle bundles, posing a great threat to the life of the individual and requiring urgent surgical assessment and treatment. In our case, both the non-crepitant presentation of our patient, the absence of gas in the imaging tests, and the absence of contaminated or surgical trauma make the diagnosis of necrotising IPPB unlikely. Furthermore, the CT scan ruled out involvement beyond the subcutaneous cellular tissue plane, despite the extension to the hypopharynx. Subsequent surgical evaluation also ruled out surgical intervention.

Key images in the CT scan of the neck with contrast, requested due to sudden dyspnoea 24 hours after arrival at the emergency department. The airway was occupied at the hypopharyngeal level by a phlegmonous collection measuring 40x16x33mm adjacent to the external margin of the masticator space and the right parotid gland. All this accompanied by cellulitis of the hemicara and right lateral cervical region, extending to the supraclavicular fossa.

Evolution
A diagnosis was made of complicated, rapidly progressive facial cellulitis, with possible hypopharyngeal abscess. The culture showed S. pyogenes group A with a penicillin MIC of 0.016. Blood cultures were negative. The evolution was favourable with 14 days of IV treatment with penicillin and clindamycin, and daily topical dressings with silver sulphadiazine. Leukocytosis disappeared and CRP normalised. There was progressive improvement of the cellulitis and mandibular induration, without requiring surgical approach. He was discharged with ad integrum recovery of his instrumental capacities.

Final diagnosis
Complicated facial cellulitis (right hemicara and cervical region) post-traumatic, rapidly progressive S. Pyogenes (group A) and hypopharyngeal collection (phlegmon) with airway compromise, in an elderly patient with poorly controlled diabetes.
