PERSONAL HISTORY
A 60-year-old male patient with the following history: Family history of early ischaemic heart disease: brother died of acute myocardial infarction at the age of 48, sister with chronic ischaemic heart disease since the age of 50. No known drug allergies. Arterial hypertension with good control as usual. Diabetes mellitus (DM) type 2 in treatment with oral antidiabetics, with last HbA1c 7% (November 2017). Probable difficult to control familial hypercholesterolaemia. Chronic ischaemic heart disease with completely revascularised multivessel disease and preserved biventricular systolic function. Debut in January 2017 with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS) of the non-Q acute myocardial infarction (AMI) type, with coronary angiography finding multivessel disease, with severe lesion in the distal trunk affecting the origin of the anterior descending artery (LAD) and severe lesion in the middle third of the right coronary artery (RCA), undergoing triple coronary artery bypass (left internal mammary to LAD, saphenous to obtuse marginal and saphenous to RCA). At discharge echocardiography with preserved systolic function (LVEF 67%) without segmental alterations of contractility and analysis with hypercholesterolaemia (total cholesterol 200 mg/dl, LDL-C 140 mg/dl, HDL 23 mg/dl) despite treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg. Admission to cardiology in February 2017 due to a new episode of chest pain with pleuritic characteristics and no elevation of myocardial damage markers, with a new echocardiography that was superimposable to the previous one except for the finding of slight pericardial effusion with no data of haemodynamic compromise. Treatment was started with high-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) with clinical improvement, and the patient was discharged with a diagnosis of Dressler's syndrome. A new blood test also showed LDL-C 201 mg/dl and treatment was started with atorvastatin 80 mg/ezetimibe 10 mg on discharge. Subsequent follow-up in cardiology outpatient clinics, with good functional class and no effort angina, as well as good therapeutic compliance with controlled blood pressure and good glycaemic control. In analytical tests, hypercholesterolemia persisted with marked elevation of LDL-C levels. Other surgical interventions: meniscopathy.

CURRENT DISEASE
60-year-old patient under follow-up in cardiology outpatient clinic since previous admission for AMI undergoing surgical revascularisation. The patient reports being in good clinical condition, with no angina or dyspnoea on exertion after discharge. He denies orthopnoea or episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea. He reported having completed the cardiac rehabilitation programme and was living a routine life without limitations. He attended the consultation to collect the results.  

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Good general condition. Conscious, oriented. Well hydrated and perfused. Eupneic at rest. SatO2 98% without oxygen therapy. Blood pressure (BP) 130/80, heart rate (HR) 70. No jugular engorgement. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, at a good frequency. No murmurs or audible extratonos. Bladder murmur preserved, without pathological noises added. Lower limbs: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Distal pulses preserved and symmetrical.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG (April 2018): sinus rhythm at 70 bpm, normal axis, normal PR, narrow QRS, Q wave in III and aVF with negative T in I and aVL, no other repolarisation alterations, no signs of acute ischaemia, normal QTc. Echocardiography (April 2018): non-dilated left ventricle without hypertrophy of its walls. Left atrium slightly dilated. Thoracic aorta within the normal range. No significant valvular heart disease. Preserved left ventricular systolic function, with LVEF calculated by Simpson BP at 67%, without segmental contractility disorders. Transmitral filling pattern of impaired relaxation without increased filling pressures. Inferior vena cava not dilated with adequate inspiratory collapse. No pericardial effusion. CBC (April 2018): CBC: leukocytes 8,100 units, haemoglobin 13.4 g/dl, platelets 339,000 units. Biochemistry: Cr 0.84 mg/dl, normal ions, normal hepatobiliary profile. HbA1c 7.0% Lipid profile: total cholesterol 345 mg/dl, LDLc 278 mg/dl, HDL 52 mg/dl, triglycerides 75 mg/dl. CBC (June 2018, after starting alirocumab): CBC: leukocytes 9,100 units, haemoglobin 13.9 g/dl, platelets 280,000 units. Biochemistry: Cr 0.90 mg/dl, normal ions, normal hepatobiliary profile. HbA1c 6.9%. Lipid profile: total cholesterol 147 mg/dl, LDL-C 78 mg/dl, HDL 55 mg/dl, triglycerides 72 mg/dl.


CLINICAL COURSE
The patient attended the consultation to collect the results, reporting a good clinical condition. He denies myalgia with high-dose statin treatment, but reports concern about the difficulty of controlling his cholesterol given his personal and family history. He reported good compliance with treatment, with good control of blood pressure and blood glucose levels at home, as well as the recommended hygienic and dietary measures. The control blood test showed persistent hypercholesterolaemia, with total cholesterol levels of 345 mg/dl and LDL-C of 278 mg/dl despite treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg/ezetimibe 10 mg. Given that the cholesterol levels were far from optimal, it was decided to start treatment with alirocumab 150 mg every two weeks and to review in one month with a new blood test. The patient returned for another check-up in June 2018, denying having had any adverse reaction after starting treatment. The control analysis showed a total cholesterol level of 147 mg/dl with LDL-C levels of 78 mg/dl.

DIAGNOSIS
Chronic ischaemic heart disease with completely surgically revascularised multivessel disease and preserved left ventricular systolic function. Probable familial hypercholesterolemia of very difficult control. Arterial hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus with good control.
