A 39-year-old woman with a history of coeliac disease. She was admitted for asthenia, jaundice and progressive choluria of 1 month's evolution, with pseudo-flu-like symptoms in the previous month. She denied travelling, risky sexual contacts, tattoos, mushroom consumption and contaminated water. No herbal products, medicines or drugs. No pregnancy.
Examination revealed frank mucocutaneous jaundice and hepatomegaly. No flapping.
Chest and abdominal X-rays were performed, which were anodine-free, CBC with total bilirubin 25 mg/dl, direct bilirubin 21mg/dl, GOT 907UI/L, GPT 640UI/L, FA 143UI/L and GGT 146UI/L. INR 2.98. Immunoglobulins were normal. Serology was negative for all viruses (A, B, C and E), except EBV (IgM and IgG +). The autoimmunity study (ANA, antiLKM, anticentromere, antimitochondrial and antimuscle smooth) was negative.
EBV and CMV viral load in blood was requested and found to be undetectable. Doppler ultrasound of the abdomen showed heterogeneity of the liver parenchyma, with normal portal and bile ducts and minimal ascites.
Given the contradictory results from the serological point of view, a transjugular liver biopsy was finally performed, showing a gradient of 12 mmHg, and samples were taken to be sent to Anatomical Pathology (AP) and Microbiology, with negative PCR for HSV, VZV, CMV and EBV.
While awaiting the results from PA, the patient presented an episode of grade I hepatic encephalopathy, requiring transfer to the ICU. Given the risk situation; being a young female patient with a personal history of autoimmune disease, and having ruled out the toxic/drug and infectious aetiology of the condition, Prednisone 1 mg/kg/24h was started empirically, with clinical and analytical improvement until the liver and coagulation profile normalised.
The PA study showed an intense portal inflammatory infiltrate of lymphocytes and eosinophils and periportal necrosis with cholestasis. Rosettes and portal expansive fibrosis (F2), reaching the definitive diagnosis of subacute liver failure, secondary to seronegative autoimmune hepatitis.
