Reason for admission
Impossibility, despite multiple attempts made in public and private care, of outpatient detoxification in cannabis use disorder as main diagnosis. Socio-demographic data Male, 33 years old. Waiter. He has been unemployed for 6 years and does not receive any benefits. Lives with his brother and parents, who own the house.

Family background
Father aged 62, with osteoarthritis. Mother aged 57, with anxiety. Brother aged 30, with cannabis and alcohol dependence. Personal history Clinical history opened at the local Drug Dependency Centre (CAD) in 1996. In 1997 he was admitted to a general hospital for heroin detoxification. He has been receiving methadone since 1999 at the ADC; for the last two years he has been taking 170 mg/day. In 1998 he spent only a couple of months in a therapeutic community; he dropped out of the programme. Both the doctor who referred him to the ADC and the private psychiatrist who also recommended his hospitalisation suggest the possible existence of a personality disorder, of a borderline or schizoid type. Medical and surgical history Benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Current illness
- Severe cannabis dependence, the main diagnosis of the case. Smokes 20 joints a day since the age of 17. His daily life is spent at home, doing nothing; he goes to the street only to get the money he needs.
- Severe nicotine dependence since the age of 17, with 20 cigarettes a day.
- Moderate benzodiazepine dependence since three years. Currently reduced alprazolam dosage to 3 tablets/day of 2 mg.
- Dependence on opiates (heroin) in therapeutic maintenance with the agonist methadone. Has not been injecting heroin for nine years.
- Sustained total remission of cocaine snorted and injected years ago. Symptomatology Cannabis-induced insomnia, anxiety, depression and apathy ("amotivational syndrome"). Subjectively severe withdrawal episodes, with intense craving and severe physical discomfort, all described as unbearable. Compares cannabis withdrawal syndrome with methadone withdrawal syndrome. Previous personality No Axis II diagnosis Confirmed at discharge, with normal functioning in stable abstinence from cannabis.

Socio-familial factors
No apparent significance: stable parental couple, middle class, affluent. Overprotective.

Physical examination
Inappetence and low weight: 64 kg (height 181 cm).

Psychopathological examination
Collaborative, oriented, anxious, depressed ("I don't feel like living"), ambivalent about the change to stable abstinence. No sensory-perceptual disturbances or suicidal ideation. On admission the parents complained that the patient was almost always in bed smoking joints. Physical evolution Detoxification by means of a descending schedule of clomethiazole from 16 tablets/day. The tapering had to be slowed down for this case, so that the detoxification lasted twenty days, when it normally lasts eleven days or less. Intercurrent tremors, sweating, tachycardia and nausea due to abstinence anxiety during the first half of the hospital stay. Blood and urine tests with serology and thyroid function: mild anaemia attributable to low weight. Electrocardiogram with diffuse polarisation disorder, with no indication for treatment. Behavioural evolution Anxiety, affective lability and ambivalence during the first two weeks of hospitalisation. Exposure to individual interviews (psychiatrist, psychologist, social worker, nurse) and psychosocial rehabilitation programme specific to dual pathology (group therapy, psychoeducation on relapse prevention and medication, relaxation, other activities).

Epicrisis
Preliminary assimilation of knowledge and skills for stable abstinence from cannabis and non-prescribed benzodiazepines. Initially stated that he wanted to be referred to a Therapeutic Community (TC), but withdrew shortly before discharge. Coordination In person and by telephone, the care team coordinated with the parents and with the TC professionals contacted during admission. Continuity of care Detoxified and with clinical improvement, at discharge he received a scheduled follow-up visit at the referring DKA. Treatment Methadone: equal dose (170 mg/day); paroxetine 20 mg: 1 tablet/day; oxcarbazepine 600 mg: 2 tablets/day; levoclorpromazine 25 mg if insomnia.
