Woman, 84 years old, hypertensive, retired teacher, admitted for general syndrome of 5 months' evolution, with 4 loose stools/day, arthralgias without arthritis, intermittent fever and hypertransaminasemia. A CT scan, colonoscopy, gastroscopy and ERCP were performed. She was assessed by 9 specialists. ANAs, rheumatoid factor, quantiferon, stool digestion and T. Whipple were negative. The case was not documented microbiologically despite serial blood cultures, urine cultures and stool cultures. No underlying neoplastic process was observed. During the 2 months of prolonged hospitalisation, the diagnoses were: choledocholithiasis with sphincterotomy, acute post-ERCP pancreatitis, permanent atrial fibrillation and jejunal gastrointestinal haemorrhage after starting anticoagulation. He presented 2 episodes of knee arthritis and pleural effusion, both fluids compatible with an inflammatory process, and 2 episodes of exanthema initially attributed to metamizole, with fever persisting. At this point, the patient was transferred to the Internal Medicine Department where the patient was assessed globally and the available information was integrated. Serum ferritin was 5492 mg/dl and glycosylated ferritin was 14% (VR 50-80). Fulfilling Yamaguchi criteria (2 major and 3 minor) she was diagnosed with adult Still's disease.
Explaining the prognosis and potential complications to the patient, she expressed her desire to "go for it"; however, she provided an advance directives document in case its application was necessary. She was discharged with corticoids, anticoagulation and rehabilitation sessions in the gym 3 times/week. She was readmitted 2 months later with fever and diarrhoea, in the context of bacteraemia due to Listeria monocytogenes and pseudomembranous colitis due to Clostridium difficile. Physical examination revealed cachexia, amyotrophies, bed rest and the onset of pressure ulcers on both heels. At that time, the patient stated that "I have been thinking a lot these days and I have decided that I am going to throw in the towel". After clarifying her doubts, the patient reaffirmed her decision, with a Drane competence level of 3. She exercised her right to refuse treatment and the therapeutic effort was adjusted, once she was able to say goodbye to a son who had travelled from abroad.
