Reason for consultation
Fever and impaired level of consciousness.

Individual approach
Anamnesis:
Allergic to diclofenac.
Personal history: cognitive impairment, Parkinson's disease, stroke, sleep apnoea, AHT, HBP, DM, COPD, hearing loss, smoker, no home oxygen.
Usual treatment: omeprazole 20 mg, enalapril/hydrochlorothiazide, budesonide, metformin, sinemet plus, rivastigmine, acetylsalicylic acid.

Present illness: Patient came to the emergency department referred by his MAP.
That morning he had started with headache and shivering accompanied by a fever peak of 39oC and was prescribed empirical treatment with ciprofloxacin for a possible UTI, although he had not presented with urinary symptoms; during the day his general condition worsened, with vomiting and decreased level of consciousness.
In previous days there were no symptoms of catarrhal symptoms, no urinary or digestive symptoms.

Examination:
Glasglow 8. BP 115/75 Sat. 98%.
Pupils miotic and non-reactive. Septic mouth. Nuchal rigidity doubtful, Brudzinski negative.
AC: pure tones at 100 bpm with no murmurs.
AR: CVM, isolated rhonchi.
Eczematous erythema with scratching lesions on the right costal region.
Abdomen: soft, depressible, without signs of peritoneal irritation.
MMII: no oedema or signs of DVT.

Complementary tests:
Chest X-ray: no condensation or effusion.
Cranial CT: chronic degenerative vasculopathy, the rest normal.
CBC: leucocytes 38880 neutrophils 91,30% CRP 79,2 procalcitonin 3,98 Creatinine 0,65
INR 1.61
Venous blood gas: pH 7.41, pCO2 30.7, pO2 71 lactic acid 53.6.
Normal urine
Blood cultures positive for Strep. Pneumoniae
Urine culture negative.
Lumbar puncture: 21000 leukocytes with predominance of PMN. Glucose 4. Protein 968mg/dl. Sample could not be sent to mycobiology.
On the ward: CT scan of the ears: findings possibly related to chronic otitis media in the right ear.

Family and community approach
Patient partially dependent for activities of daily living due to sequelae of previous stroke and parkinsonism. She lives with her daughter and her daughter's family.

Clinical judgement
Differential diagnosis: stroke, sepsis, meningitis, encephalitis.
Clinical judgement: pneumococcal meningitis, chronic right otitis media.

Action plan
After the complementary tests and the diagnosis of bacterial meningitis, specific treatment was established and, after stabilisation, the patient was admitted to the infectious diseases ward.
 
Evolution
The patient is currently conscious, oriented, with great improvement and awaiting completion of rehabilitation in order to be discharged home.

