A 28-year-old pregnant woman from Embarcación (Salta), in her second gestation in week 38 with no history of pathology. She consulted for fever (39.4°C), myalgia and headache of 48 hours' duration, and was admitted for investigation and treatment.
On the third day she started bleeding from mucous membranes, in areas of venipuncture and progressive deterioration of general condition. Twenty-four hours later, an emergency caesarean section was performed for acute foetal distress, with severe postpartum metrorrhagia. The mother received supportive care requiring multiple blood transfusions. She recovered favourably at 72 h postpartum.
The baby was born at 38 weeks gestational age, weighing 3900 g and with an Apgar score of 4/4. During admission to the neonatal intensive care unit, he required mechanical ventilation for meconium aspiration syndrome and pulmonary hypertension and luminotherapy for jaundice.
On the 5th day of life, the child started with fever (39°C), hepatomegaly and a generalised evanescent exanthema. After 24 h, haemorrhages through nasogastric tube and venipunctures were added. The haemogram showed 5800 white blood cells (lymphocytes 43%, segmented neutrophils 47%, monocytes 6%, basophils 4%), haematocrit 34%, haemoglobin 11.2 mg% and platelet count 13 000/mm3. With a presumptive diagnosis of sepsis, blood cultures, urine culture and lumbar puncture were performed. The patient was also tested for IgM antibodies to dengue virus. Antibiotics and blood and platelet transfusions were prescribed.
Cultures for common germs and fungi were negative.
The laboratory reported positive IgM by ELISA technique for dengue. For confirmation of the result, the sample was sent to the National Institute of Human Viral Diseases in Pergamino, who certified by ELISA serological tests, neutralisation and molecular detection of the viral genome (RT-PCR), the infection by serotype DEN-1.
Oxygen was administered until 26 days of age. Seven days after the onset of symptoms, the platelet count normalised. The clinical evolution was favourable and the patient was discharged after one month of life.
As a consequence of perinatal asphyxia related to the mother's severe form of dengue, the child developed hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy and sequelae of respiratory compromise. Clinical and serological controls were performed at 8 and 13 months of life, with persistent antidengue IgG antibody titres, confirming the diagnosis of congenital infection. Serological results by ELISA showed high positive titres, with a PR of 1.92 and 1.37 for dengue at 8 and 13 months, respectively.
The child is currently receiving neurological stimulation and preventive respiratory treatment with inhaled corticosteroids, with good progress.

Dengue is an acute viral disease, endemic-epidemic in nature, transmitted by peridomestic mosquitoes of the genus Aedes. In the Americas the vector is Aedes aegypti, distributed between latitudes 35° ◦N and 35°◦S and generally below 1000 m altitude. Aedes albopticus related to disease transmission in other continents has only been found as a potential vector in the Americas.
