A 22-year-old previously healthy female patient consulted the emergency department for an 8-day history of hemicranial headache, pulsating type, with nausea and photophobia, which worsened with activity and improved with rest. He also reported pain in the right upper limb that started first in the hand and then ascended, involving the whole limb symmetrically. She described that the pain worsened with movement and in the previous hours she associated it with the presence of paresthesia and dysesthesia. She was initially assessed by the neurology department, who decided to hospitalise her with a diagnosis of probable brachial plexitis.
A lumbar puncture and cervical spine imaging were performed with normal results, so she was started on gabapentin for pain. During the days of her stay, she was under strict neurological surveillance. It was noteworthy that, 2 days prior to discharge, she presented an episode of parasomnia, with vivid dream sensations, but this was considered an adverse effect of the medication. After 7 days of hospitalisation and complete resolution of his clinical symptoms, discharge was considered. One week later she presented with fever, dysphagia, dysarthria, difficulty swallowing, hyporexia, sialorrhoea, right hemiparesis and generalised muscle spasms. The condition rapidly progressed within hours to a decoma state, with decortication posture, significant sialorrhoea and severe cervical and oropharyngeal muscle spasms. He presented nuchal rigidity with bilateral extensor plantar extensor responses, and an infectious encephalic process was suspected.
Intubation and mechanical ventilation were performed in the emergency resuscitation room. Computed tomography of the brain was normal, cytochemical study of cerebrospinal fluid showed no abnormalities. Given the clinical suspicion, they decided to conduct a directed interview with the relatives to investigate a history of potential rabies exposure, and her family confirmed that the patient had been bitten by a cat on the right hand 3 months earlier, but had not consulted a medical centre for this reason. In addition, the grandmother had also been bitten by the same cat, who died 30 days earlier apparently from polyneuropathic symptoms and stem symptoms, with a final diagnosis of Guillain-Barré syndrome.
The cat belonged to the family and was vaccinated against rabies, but was hunting bats. The Milwaukee protocol was initiated the same day due to the high clinical probability (7 days after the onset of symptoms), which consists of inducing a therapeutic coma with infusions of ketamine and midazolam plus antiviral therapy with amantadine and acyclovir. Serum anti-rabies antibodies and rabies corneal imprints were negative. Sedation was stopped on the third day after initiation of the Milwaukee protocol because the patient presented with episodes of hypothermia with bradycardia and hypotension. A plain brain CT scan was ordered, which showed marked diffuse cerebral oedema and associated subarachnoid haemorrhage. Brain CT scan showing fourth ventricle with cerebral oedema and haemorrhage.

Ascending transtentorial herniation and bilateral cerebellar tonsillar herniation. Subsequently, the patient presented ventricular fibrillation and asystole, which led to her death. During the necropsy, pressure grooves were identified in the hippocampal uncus and cerebellar tonsils, in which encephalomalacia and haemorrhage were evident. Punctate haemorrhagic lesions compatible with Duret's haemorrhages were evident in the midbrain. Macroscopic observation of the brain tissue showing punctate haemorrhagic lesions compatible with Duret's haemorrhages. On microscopic examination, brain sections showed significant vascular congestion with focal presence of perivascular cuffs and presence of glial nodules and gliosis with oedema of the brain parenchyma. There were focal changes of neuronophagy. Eosinophilic inclusions compatible with Negri bodies were identified in the cytoplasm of cerebral cortical neurons, hippocampus and Purkinje neurons. Postmortem brain biopsy staining showing cytoplasm of cerebral cortical neurons (eosinophilic inclusions compatible with Negri bodies). Purkinje neurons (eosinophilic inclusions compatible with Negri bodies). The anatomo-pathological findings confirmed the diagnosis of rabies encephalitis and the primary cause of death was considered to be cerebral herniation secondary to endocranial hypertension. Direct immunofluorescence was positive for rabies virus and the biological test in mice was also positive. Antigenic variant 4, which is associated with insectivorous bats, was identified. In this case the bat-cat-human transmission chain was triggered by the cat, which had bat-hunting habits. The public health investigation found that eight healthcare workers at the hospital had been exposed either through mucous membranes or non-intact skin to infectious fluids, such as saliva, cerebrospinal fluid or tears. All eight received post-exposure prophylaxis therapy with a single intramuscular dose (40 IU/kg) of human rabies immune globulin. In addition, they identified 32 social contacts (study partners and friends) classified as severe exposure, receiving full post-exposure treatment (human rabies immune globulin and all 5 doses of vaccine), with no reported adverse effects.
