This is a 32-year-old patient with no history of significant allergy, working on the restoration of a school building in the parish of Santa Rosalía in Caracas, Venezuela, with no history of previous accidents with these insects, who consulted about 4 h after a black ant bite. He immediately developed symptoms of urticaria, localised in the right forearm region, with intense pruritus and general malaise and hypotension (80/50 mm Hg). The patient reported no previous episodes of adverse reactions to bites by other hymenopteran species. The ants were subsequently identified and classified as the species Odontomachus bauri.

The bite presented as an immediate skin reaction, characterised by an erythematous (urticarial) papule measuring 16 x 6 cm, surrounded by a halo, with a central depression or punctum, accompanied by tingling or uncomfortable skin irritation causing a desire to scratch the affected area, followed by a burning sensation, numbness or pruritus. Physical examination revealed intense oedema around the bite site, covering the entire anterior part of the right forearm, with peripheral erythema. The lesion developed was extremely pruritic. Intradermal tests with hymenopteran venom (Vespula sp., Polistes sp. and Apis mellifera) were negative. For treatment an intramuscular ampoule of hydrocortisone sodium succinate (100 mg/stat) and the systemic antihistamine Loratadine (10 mg/tablet) one tablet daily for 5 d were administered.

The patient had an episode of moderate urticaria after being bitten by an ant (O. bauri) while doing masonry work near a nest of these insects. This ant can become a major health risk in tropical and subtropical areas.

The current case, with no previous known history of ant accident, had a rapid and intense evolution, starting with a typical ant bite or sting, but with a huge allergic reaction affecting the skin. On physical examination, no other symptoms were detected, which could raise suspicion of generalised anaphylaxis, despite a hypotensive condition, which normalised (120/75 mmHg), after administration of hydrocortisone. However, the patient was warned that further contact with these ants could cause a more severe clinical picture, such as angioneurotic oedema or anaphylactic shock; he was advised to keep antihistamines with him at all times for the initial treatment of another accident.

It is intended to demonstrate in this clinical report that S. invicta and S. richteri are not unique in their ability to cause serious allergic reactions on the continent. A diverse group of ant species belonging to 6 different subfamilies (Formicinae, Myrmeciinae, Ponerinae, Ectatomminae, Myrmicinae and Pseudomyrmecinae) and 10 genera (Solenopsis, Formica, Myrmecia, Tetramorium, Pogonomyrmex, Pachycondyla, Rhytidoponera, Pseudomyrmex, and Hypoponera), and now Odontomachus, demonstrate this ability. The knowledge that these species of wild ants, native or imported, could cause serious reactions in patients should result in the most rapid evaluation and emergency treatment.
