Anamnesis
A 21-day-old female neonate was referred to our clinic by her paediatrician for disseminated annular lesions of 4 days' evolution. The child was brought in by her mother, an immigrant from Senegal, who told us that the lesions had started on the forehead and had spread to the scalp and then to the trunk. The girl had been born in Spain by caesarean section, due to a pelvic-cephalic disproportion. As a complication, the mother developed intrapartum fever and was treated with ampicillin, gentamicin and clindamycin. The mother denied similar lesions in cohabitants, or contact with animals.

Physical examination
On examination, we observed multiple annular plaques, between one and five centimetres in maximum diameter, all with a well-defined raised erythematous-squamous border, with central clearing and superficial desquamation, located on the face, scalp and trunk. A total of ten lesions were present over the entire body surface.
No lesions were observed on physical examination of the cohabitants.

Complementary examinations
The clinical presentation of annular lesions in the neonatal period poses a broad differential diagnosis including neonatal lupus, seborrhoeic dermatitis, erythema multiforme, histiocytosis, congenital syphilis and dermatophytosis. However, despite the unusual presentation at this age of life, due to the typical morphology of the lesions and the accessibility of the potassium hydroxide test, we decided to rule out dermatophyte infection in the first instance. Direct observation revealed the presence of numerous septate hyphae.

Diagnosis
Two weeks after sowing, the presence of Microsporum canis was confirmed in culture, confirming the diagnosis of tinea capitis and corporis due to this dermatophyte.

Treatment and evolution
As for treatment, we initially opted for topical antifungals, which showed partial improvement, but given the persistence of the lesions, we decided to prescribe oral itraconazole (due to a shortage of griseofulvin) with complete resolution of the symptoms in 4 weeks. We also referred the patient to the paediatrics department, where neutropenia was detected (between 400 and 700 neutrophils/ųl), sustained over time, with the presence of positive Ig M and Ig G antineutrophil antibodies, the rest of the study (lymphocyte subpopulations, autoimmunity, immunoglobulins and complement) being normal. This confirmed the diagnosis of autoimmune neonatal neutropenia. The patient is currently being followed up by the paediatric haematology service without having presented any serious infection.
