58-year-old patient with no toxic habits or drug allergies. Medical history of BPH, alopecia areata universalis, chronic gastritis and Helicobacter pilory infection, received eradication treatment. On regular treatment with Omeprazole. The week prior to admission, the patient was diagnosed with acute otitis media, receiving treatment with Amoxicillin, Dipyrone and ibuprofen. Dysthermia persisted and was associated with diaphoresis and intense asthenia, and the patient went to the emergency department. Physical examination in the emergency department revealed fever of 39oC, hyperemic pharynx without exudates, no peripheral lymphadenopathies were palpable. Pain on epigastric palpation without peritonism, the rest normal. Emergency laboratory tests showed leucopenia with neutropenia of 200/L. No anaemia or thrombocytopenia. The patient was initially diagnosed with probable pharmacological neutropenia associated with metamizole. He started treatment with Filgrastim and antibiotherapy with piperacillin- tazobactam, he presented with oropharyngeal candidiasis and started treatment with fluconazole. Persistence of fever without recovery of agranulocytosis, presenting with painful mouth ulcers which subsequently tested positive for herpes virus in the PCR and was treated with acyclovir. After 11 days of treatment with Filgrastim, pancytopenia was observed as well as progressive elevation of transaminases, so treatment with piperacillin tazobactam was withdrawn and Cefepime was switched.
A bone marrow puncture was performed, showing signs of bone marrow necrosis. Among the causes of the bone marrow necrosis, an infectious cause was investigated as fungus-like structures were observed in the aspirate, so treatment was started with caspofungin, which was subsequently withdrawn due to negative panfungal PCR, and a serological study of the virus was performed, which was negative. No neoplastic infiltrate was observed in the biopsy, ruling out malignant haematological pathology; a thoracoabdominal CT scan was performed to study the extension of a solid tumour, which was negative. Due to persistent pancytopenia, previous analyses were reviewed, showing that the LDH value was normal, which indicated that the bone marrow necrosis could be an acute drug-related process, so it was decided to continue treatment with fluconazole and antipyretics only, with clinical improvement and normalisation of the values of all blood series. Finally, the patient was diagnosed with acute medullary necrosis paradoxical to the administration of granulocyte colony stimulating factor.
