Patient aged 76 years, with a personal history of type 2 diabetes mellitus on treatment with metformin 850mg and probable interstitial pneumopathy due to occupational exposure. He was assessed in the Emergency Department for intense asthenia and fever with a bacteraemic profile, with no other clinical signs of note by organs or apparatus except for a scarcely productive cough in the previous days. A week earlier he had been admitted to the Pneumology Department for a respiratory infection, presenting a torpid clinical evolution after discharge. He was admitted to the department on suspicion of fever of respiratory origin, blood cultures were taken and antibiotic treatment with meropenem and levofloxacin was started. During his hospital stay, blood cultures isolated E. faecalis, sensitive to ampicillin and resistant to aminoglycosides, and Bacteroides fragilis resistant to penicillin and sensitive to clindamycin and metronidazole. The Infectious Diseases Unit was consulted, who recommended de-escalation to ampicillin 2g/4h intravenous, and a CT (computed tomography) scan of the chest was performed to complete the study, which showed the absence of pneumonic consolidation, although two splenic liquid collections measuring 8 x 8 x 7 cm and 5.5 x 4.5 x 4.5 x 4 cm, compatible with abscesses, were found by chance.

The patient was referred to General Surgery for drainage and follow-up of the collections. Radioguided puncture and culture of the exudate was performed, in which E. faecalis was isolated with the same antibiogram as described. With this result, a transthoracic ultrasound (TTE) was requested to screen for infective endocarditis (IE), with no pathological findings. The patient progressed favourably, remaining afebrile and with an ultrasound examination of the spleen showing two residual collections measuring 11 x 21 mm and 23 x 34 mm, and was discharged after five days of antibiotic treatment with meropenem and levofloxacin and ten days of ampicillin and metronidazole. On an outpatient basis, Amoxicillin-Clavulanic acid 875/125 mg every 8h associated with Metronidazole 500 mg/8h for seven days is recommended. One week later, the patient was readmitted due to recurrence of fever.

Differential diagnosis
Given the epidemiological and clinical characteristics and the analytical and radiological findings of our patient, the differential diagnosis of the splenic lesions was mainly between the following entities: tumoural cause, either due to metastasis or lymphoma, infectious cause, and systemic cause, mainly sarcoidosis. In the presence of systemic symptoms, a neoplastic cause must always be ruled out, with lymphomas in our case being the most likely cause.
Splenic lesions may develop as primary splenic lymphoma or as part of a systemic disease such as non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), Hodgkin's disease (HD), tricholeukaemia, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia or angioimmunoblastic T-lymphoma.
Primary splenic marginal zone lymphoma constitutes 1% of NHL and usually occurs in patients older than 50 years with splenomegaly, lymphocytosis with circulating "hairy" lymphocytes and cytopenias due to hypersplenism. It differs from other NHLs in the absence of lymphadenopathy, extralymphatic organ involvement, B symptoms and elevated LDH. It is associated with splenic infarction, hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and mixed cryoglobulinaemia.
Other less frequent malignant tumours are angiosarcoma or metastases, mainly from melanoma followed by breast and lung neoplasms and most often accompanied by metastases elsewhere in the abdomen. On CT they are hypodense lesions, which may be cystic or have a necrotic centre with ring enhancement.
From the infectious point of view, splenic lesions are possible in the case of pyogenic abscesses, microabscesses often caused by fungi in patients with immunosuppression, granulomas in the context of miliary tuberculosis, in infections by Pneumocystis carinii or by parasites.
In the case of tuberculosis (TB), abdominal involvement comprises about 5% of all cases and includes involvement of the gastrointestinal tract, peritoneum, lymph nodes and solid organs such as the spleen which is rarely involved. Approximately 15-25% of patients with abdominal TB have concomitant pulmonary TB.
Clinical manifestations depend on the location and may include fever, weight loss, abdominal pain or distension, ascites, hepatomegaly, diarrhoea and abdominal mass and on imaging granulomas are usually detected as hypodense nodules less than 5mm in size. Splenic abscess is an uncommon infection whose incidence varies from 0.14% to 0.7% according to autopsy series, and up to 0.9% of abdominal infections2 , although there has been an increase in recent years linked to the growing number of immunocompromised patients. The most frequent contributing factors are human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, injecting drug use or chronic alcohol consumption, intake of immunosuppressive drugs, chronic liver disease or underlying cancer. However, spleen abscesses are increasingly seen in patients without risk factors, reflecting the complexity of their pathophysiology. The average age varies from 30-40 years depending on the studies, with a clear male predominance (63%).
It may be due to three mechanisms:
1) haematogenous dissemination, which accounts for up to 75% of cases, with infective endocarditis being the most common cause;
2) intrinsic theory or infection following a structural or functional splenic alteration (infarction, haematoma or haemoglobinopathy);
3) extrinsic theory, less frequent sources of bacteraemia such as urinary tract infections, surgical wound infections and even secondary to adjacent digestive pathology that would spread by contiguity.
Abscesses are usually multiple when they are a consequence of haematogenous dissemination and the frequency of this complication in patients with documented endocarditis could be established at 4.8%.
Clinical manifestations are non-specific, often presenting as isolated fever (95% of cases), leading to diagnostic and therapeutic delay, responsible for its high morbidity (12%) and mortality (47-100%). The average time between diagnosis and onset of symptoms is two weeks (from 2 days to 4 weeks).
The classic triad of Sarr and Zuidema, associating fever, left hypochondrium pain and palpable mass, is present in only about one third of cases (36-38%). Other possible symptoms are nausea, weight loss, asthenia, non-specific abdominal pain and splenomegaly (40-54% of cases). Splenic abscess may be accompanied by left pleural effusion or splenic infarction if due to septic embolism.
In the case of our patient, the finding of these abscesses was accidental after ordering a study to rule out a neoplasm in the left lower lobe, given the repeated episodes of infections at this level for which he was admitted on three occasions in less than two months.
The most common microorganisms involved are S. aureus, viridans group streptococci, Salmonella sp and E. coli (and other enterobacteria). Rarely, they are aseptic abscesses or abscesses produced by other germs (Bartonella spp., Candida spp., Burkholderia pseudomallei, mycobacteria or amoebae), being more frequent in immunocompromised patients. Diagnosis is based on microbiological isolation and imaging tests.
Blood cultures are more frequently positive in multiple abscesses (70%) than in single lesions (14%). Culture of abscess contents has a higher sensitivity, estimated at 50-80%, although it requires puncture and therefore a higher risk of haemorrhagic complication.
On a chest X-ray, a left pleural effusion or a left lower lobe infiltrate may increase suspicion. Ultrasound has now been abandoned in favour of CT, whose sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of splenic abscesses are estimated at 95 and 92%5 respectively, although the lesion may be incorrectly categorised as an infarct5 , which may also be a complication of bacterial endocarditis. The abscess appears as a hypodense image with discrete peripheral contrast enhancement, which can sometimes be absent. CT also allows guided puncture, with 5% morbidity and less than 1% for trained teams. The risks of surgical puncture are higher, with variable morbidity of 11-28% and a mortality of 6-14%. Possible complications include pleural effusion, haemorrhage, empyema and fistula.
MRI is not routinely performed, it is reserved for identifying hypervascularised lesions due to haemorrhagic complications.
Splenic abscess is usually treated with a combination of broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy together with surgical or percutaneous drainage, since according to some authors, antibiotic treatment alone is associated with 30-80% mortality.
Intravenous cefotaxime or ceftriaxone can be administered together with metronidazole or monotherapy with meropenem or piperacillin-tazobactam. An aminoglycoside may be added to any of these regimens for the first 3-5 days while awaiting culture results.
The treatment of enterococcal endocarditis is more complex due to the lower sensitivity of enterococci to penicillin and other beta-lactams and their tolerance to the bactericidal action of antibiotics. In our case, given the isolation of Enterococcus faecalis in serial blood cultures and the high suspicion of endocarditis, the treatment of choice is the combination of ampicillin 2g/4h with ceftriaxone 2g/12h intravenously or with an aminoglycoside (gentamicin 1-1.5mg/kg/8h or streptomycin 15mg/kg/day) for 4-6 weeks (on native or prosthetic valve respectively). In case of suspected primary bacteraemia, ampicillin 2g/6h, daptomycin 10mg/kg/day, vancomycin 20mg/kg/8-12h, teicoplanin 600mg/day or linezolid 600mg/12h could be used.
In general, for percutaneous drainage, preference is given to haemodynamically stable patients with single abscesses of 3-4cm or less in size, without internal septa and away from the splenic hilum2. Otherwise, or in the absence of alternative treatments or previous therapeutic failure, splenectomy should be used, the role of which is still under debate. According to some authors, it would be the only effective way to prevent recurrence of splenic abscess4 ; however, more recent data show the success of therapy in the absence of splenectomy, which avoids the risk of mortality due to infection after the intervention. Other granulomatous processes include sarcoidosis, a systemic disease of unknown aetiology characterised by infiltration of tissues by non-caseating granulomas. The most common form of involvement is bilateral hilar adenopathy, reticular pulmonary infiltrates and/or skin, eye or joint lesions. The clinical presentation is variable, with pulmonary manifestations being the most frequent; systemic symptoms such as asthenia, fever and weight loss are more common in patients older than 70 years. Extrapulmonary involvement can involve all organs and systems in varying proportions and severity, with splenic involvement being a rare entity and manifesting as asymptomatic splenomegaly (<5%), hypersplenism with pancytopenia and/or granulomas appearing as non-specific hypodense nodules (15% of CT scans).

There is no definitive test for diagnosis, requiring:
1) compatible clinical and radiological picture;
2). Exclusion of other diseases;
3) detection of non-caseating granulomas.

Evolution
On starting again with febrile episodes, she was admitted to hospital and started on ampicillin therapy due to the isolation of Enterococcus faecalis in previous blood cultures, with the addition of ceftriaxone iv 2g/24 hours. Blood cultures taken in two samples on arrival were negative, but TTE was again requested due to persistent suspicion of IE, which was again ruled out, so transesophageal ultrasound (TEE) was attempted, but the patient did not tolerate it and it was rejected. After two weeks of therapy, it was decided to perform a positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) scan, which showed discrete splenomegaly and large uptake at the splenic level among other locations, so it was decided to perform a splenectomy, which passed without incident. The results of the cultures and pathological anatomy of the sample confirmed the presence of abscesses caused by Enterococcus faecalis. In view of these findings, and although both echocardiographies (TEE and TTE) showed normal results, PET-CT showed hypercaptation in the aortic perivalvular area. Therefore, in view of the bacteraemia caused by enterococci, and given that the splenic abscesses could be related to septic emboli, it was decided to carry out complete therapy for endocarditis, having administered a complete antibiotic regimen during his admission with ampicillin 2g/4 hours (22 days) together with two doses of dalbavancin 1500mg separated by 12 days.
The PET-CT scan also ruled out the aetiology of thrombosis in the abdominal aorta given the absence of uptake at this level, so anticoagulation was maintained and she continued with check-ups by the vascular surgery department. Furthermore, this imaging test provided information to reject the presence of neoplasia in the gastrointestinal tract, which was suspected due to the microcytic anaemia suffered by our patient, as well as the bacteraemia caused by Enterococcus faecalis. Following the results of the pathological anatomy of our patient's spleen sample, the absence of granulomas was confirmed. However, given the PET-CT finding of granulomatous thickening in the right hemithorax together with moderate uptake of bilateral hilar adenopathies and elevated angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), samples are pending to be taken by Pneumology to rule out concomitant sarcoidosis. The patient has experienced significant clinical improvement during successive check-ups at the Infectious Diseases Outpatient Clinic, with no recurrence of fever or other noteworthy symptoms.

Final diagnosis
Splenic abscesses secondary to infective endocarditis due to E. faecalis.
