A 72-year-old man with a personal history of type 2 diabetes mellitus for twelve years, on treatment with one tablet of metformin 850 mg daily, mild plaque psoriasis, ex-smoker for about 15 years with no other toxic habits and with a confirmed allergy to streptomycin. Native of Colombia, retired, worked as a farmer in Colombia and England, and later worked in the pharmaceutical industry in England. Since 2014 retired and settled in Dúrcal (Granada), spending most of his time travelling around different countries, having visited Thailand, South Africa and Colombia in the last year. In the last three months, he travelled through Central America from Colombia to the USA, staying for a few weeks in New York where he visited rural and forest areas, returning later to Spain. He denied any bites of any kind, although some of his fellow travellers in New York had suffered tick bites. He reported sporadic unprotected heterosexual intercourse during his travels. In addition, he reported going to an outdoor hot springs area in the area near his municipality in Granada in the days after returning from his last trip. He had not received any vaccinations or chemoprophylaxis prior to any of his trips.
Five days after returning to Spain from New York, she began with a pseudo-flu-like illness with non-thermometric fever, intense asthenia and generalised arthromyalgia of at least a week's duration, initially of a fluctuating nature, without affecting her daily life. In the 48 hours prior to consulting the ED, she presented a fever peak of 39oC with profuse sweating and shivering, accompanied by general malaise and pleuritic pain in the left submammary region, with progressive prostration, which was the reason for which she finally consulted the ED. In recent weeks, she also reported anorexia and unquantified weight loss. In the anamnesis by organs and apparatus, she denied any other symptoms. He had seen his family doctor in the previous days for the aforementioned clinic, who performed basic laboratory tests and a Mantoux test, with no relevant findings, but noted conjunctival jaundice on examination, and finally referred the patient to the emergency department for assessment.
On arrival at the ED, he had a fever of 39oC with a clear feeling of prostration and general malaise despite preserved haemodynamic parameters. He presented conjunctival jaundice, with no skin lesions (except for occipital psoriasis plaque) or palpable lymphadenopathy. The pharyngo-tonsillar examination revealed no findings. Cardiorespiratory auscultation showed hypophonesis in both apexes. Abdominal examination was unremarkable with no organomegaly, and the extremities had no skin lesions or other data of interest. In the complementary tests performed in the ED, total bilirubin was slightly elevated at 1.66 mg/dL, with normal direct bilirubin and transaminases, as well as elevated C-reactive protein at 222 mg/L and procalcitonin at 0.51 ng/mL. He also had ferritin values of 3313 ng/mL with iron and transferrin at the lower limit of normality, hypertriglyceridaemia of 519 mg/dL with a normal lipid profile and bicytopenia in the haemogram with haemoglobin of 11.9 g/dL (with a high corrected reticulocyte count) and 88,000 platelets/mm3, without leukocytosis or eosinophilia. Serologies drawn in the ED for hepatotropic virus, HIV and syphilis were negative. Negative urine and blood cultures. A single negative stool parasite smear. A peripheral blood smear was requested, which showed doubtful forms compatible with trophozoites, for which reason thick blood smear, PCR (polymerase chain reaction) and malaria antigen were also performed, all of which were negative. Chest X-ray and electrocardiogram were negative. Based on the results of these tests and given the patient's general condition, it was decided to admit him to the Infectious Diseases unit of our hospital, with the diagnosis of fever of intermediate duration, bicytopenia and hyperferritinaemia in a patient with recent travel to North America and a history of unprotected sexual intercourse.

Differential diagnosis
To make the differential diagnosis, we will focus on fever as a guiding sign, with the peculiarity of presenting in a patient with a recent trip abroad, so imported pathology will be of special interest. Although the study of fever in a patient after a trip abroad includes non-infectious causes, in our case, we assume this aetiology as the most likely cause of the clinical picture due to its evolution, initial complementary tests and the clear chronological relationship established between the appearance of the symptoms and the various trips made by the patient.
It is mandatory to include in the differential diagnosis pathologies common to any traveller, and some of them especially if risky activities have been carried out, as in the case of our patient. Given the wide range of infectious causes that could be considered in our case, it was decided to narrow down the list of possible aetiologies according to the areas visited by the patient in recent weeks and months: North America, including rural areas, and Colombia. Colombia: hepatitis A and B, Dengue, enteric fevers, leishmaniasis, amebiasis and parasitosis, with malaria and babesiosis being the main ones. 2. USA: Lyme disease, babesiosis, coccidioidomycosis, tularemia, Hantavirus infection, rickettsiosis ... Also of special interest in our case would be those entities that are transmitted through the bite of a tick (although our patient had not been bitten by this arthropod, it was indicated by his travel companions) such as: rickettsiosis, Lyme disease, babebiosis, anaplasmosis, ehrlichiosis and borrieliosis, fundamentally.
Focusing on the details of our case, any patient coming from tropical areas endemic for parasitosis with fever and bicytopenia should have a blood smear or thick drop, as was done in our case, where possible trophozoites were visualised, so the main presumptive diagnosis was initially malaria. The other imported intra-erythrocytic parasitosis to be considered, with a morphology similar to malaria in certain stages of its biological cycle, is babesiosis. Moreover, it is associated with similar risk factors, with an epidemiological distribution that is sometimes overlapping and, particularly in our case, linked to geographical areas where our patient was present in the previous weeks and months.
Finally, we believe that in addition to focusing on the possible infectious aetiology, our case should include a specific syndromic entity in the differential diagnosis: haemophagocytic syndrome, as this is a patient with fever, bicytopenia, and elevated ferritin and triglycerides. This will force us to request a bone marrow aspiration puncture (BMP).

Evolution
During his admission, the patient was initially treated with antipyretics without empirical antibiotherapy, given his clinical and haemodynamic stability while awaiting the results of the complementary tests, and he remained afebrile. The study was completed with laboratory tests for basic autoimmunity (negative) and serology for parvovirus B19, cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, Rickettsia, Coxiella and Borrelia, all of which were negative. In addition to hyperferritinaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia was observed with a normal lipid profile. An abdominal ultrasound was requested, which showed hepatic steatosis and moderate splenomegaly, with no other lesions. The study was also extended with an antigenuria for Leishmania in urine, which was negative. Finally, the haematology department was consulted to assess the possibility of carrying out an AMP, with the following report: cellular aspirate with monocytes and slight dysgranulopoiesis, with no increase in the number of macrophages or haemophagocytosis phenomena. The study was completed with PCR for Leishmania in bone marrow, negative. In view of the presence of possible intraerythrocytic trophozoites in the smear, and after ruling out malaria with thick drop, PCR and antigen, it was decided to request a study of possible babesiosis from the Instituto de Salud Carlos III and empirical treatment was started with atovaquone 750 mg every 12 hours and azithromycin 500 mg in initial dose followed by 250 mg every 24 hours for 10 days, with clear clinical and analytical improvement, and the patient was discharged home on the fifth day of treatment. The patient remained asymptomatic and afebrile, with normalisation of haemoglobin and platelet levels in the haemogram and a decrease in CRP, ferritin and triglycerides in the last analysis. A report was received from the Instituto de Salud Carlos III, with a positive IgG result for Babesia spp. by indirect immunofluorescence (IFA).

Final diagnosis
Babesiosis imported from North America in a patient with recent travel.
