A 15-year-old male patient, with no toxic habits or known drug allergies, with a history of allergic rhinitis (grasses and olive trees). He was a student from a rural area. Twelve days prior to admission he presented a fever with odynophagia, being diagnosed by his family doctor as acute pharyngotonsillitis and receiving treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for three days, with resolution of the symptoms.

Having previously been well, he was admitted to hospital for presenting in the last two days a fever of up to 39o with profuse sweating, a feeling of general malaise, and retrosternal pain radiating to the left shoulder and back, which improved when seated and when he leaned forward, and worsened with inspiration. On physical examination he was conscious, oriented and with a moderate feeling of illness. There were no alterations in the head, neck, mouth or pharynx, except for moderate tonsillar hypertrophy. Cardiac auscultation was rhythmic and without murmurs, with muffled tones, and respiratory auscultation showed bibasal hypoventilation. The abdomen was soft and depressible with no pain, masses or organomegaly. Extremities were normal.

Complementary examinations showed: Hb: 13.6 g/dl, haematocrit: 40%, platelets: 236,000 mm3. Leukocytes: 20,400 mm3 (N 84%, L 10%). Coagulation test normal. Biochemistry: glucose: 110 mg/dl, creatinine: 0.91 mg/dl, ions normal. Liver profile: total bilirubin: 0.48 mg/dl, GOT: 19 U/L, GPT: 16 U/L, FA: 180 U/L, GGT: 155 U/L. CPK: 84 U/L, troponin 0.55 ng/ml, LDH: 192 U/L. CRP: 243 mg/L. Procalcitonin: 2.23 ng/ml.

An ECG revealed sinus rhythm together with ST-segment elevation with superior concavity in multiple leads. Chest X-ray showed an increased cardiac silhouette and a small left pleural effusion. The syndromic diagnosis of acute pericarditis was established and the patient was admitted.

Differential diagnosis
Acute pericarditis (AP) is a multi-thiological clinical syndrome manifested by chest pain, pericardial friction rub and evolving repolarisation changes on the electrocardiogram (ECG). The diagnosis of pericarditis requires at least 2 of these 3 elements, and although auscultation of pericardial friction rub alone can establish the diagnosis, its absence never rules it out. The main clinical manifestation of acute pericarditis is chest pain, which can be confused with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). However, unlike infarction, the pain is rapid but not sudden in onset, although intense it is not oppressive, is modified by breathing and postural changes, and is not accompanied by vegetative symptoms. The ECG is altered in more than 80% of cases of AP and consists of a diffuse ST-segment elevation of superior concavity (subepicardial lesion curve) with positive T-waves. The PR segment may be lowered (atrial lesion curve). These changes usually last for hours or a few days. Unlike AMI, no Q-wave or mirror image is evident. Myocardial injury markers (CPK and troponin) are usually normal or slightly elevated, due to the accompanying epicardial inflammation, but never reach the levels seen in AMI.

Pleuritic pain originating from pleural effusion, pneumonia or pneumothorax may have features in common with pericarditis, but the pain is localised more laterally in the thorax. However, the association of pericarditis with pleuritis (pleuro-pericarditis) is common, so the pain may have characteristics of both. Pathologies of the aorta, oesophagus and chest wall present clinical and radiological features that rarely raise confusion with the diagnosis of AP.

Once the syndromic diagnosis of pericarditis has been established, an attempt must be made to establish the aetiological diagnosis. The first consideration is to assess whether there is any underlying disease that may be the cause of pericarditis. Patients with renal failure, recent AMI, cardiac surgery, chest radiotherapy, known neoplasia or collagen diseases may develop AP, which should always be considered secondary to the underlying disease in the first place.

However, the most common situation is for pericarditis to present as a primary disease. In these cases, the vast majority (more than 90%) of pericarditis are idiopathic or viral. Despite the term idiopathic, there is sufficient evidence to assume that most cases are due to a viral infection or an immune response to it. Attempting to prove this viral infection is a complex and costly endeavour, which is in no way compensated by the fact that the disease resolves spontaneously, without sequelae, in the vast majority of patients.

There are a number of clinical data that can be very useful in guiding the aetiological diagnosis of AP. The presence of an intrathoracic infection (pneumonia or empyema) makes it necessary to rule out purulent pericarditis. Another very important aspect to assess is the geographical/epidemiological context: tuberculous pericarditis is very rare in Spain, about 4% of all pericarditis, but in some areas of Africa it may account for 80% of pericarditis. In contrast, other clinical features are completely non-specific, such as the presence of effusion or cardiac tamponade. Although in relative terms tamponade is more frequent in specific pericarditis, it is not uncommon in idiopathic or viral pericarditis and, in absolute terms, this is the most frequent aetiology. Other clinical features of interest such as the presence of pleural effusion and prolonged clinical course are entirely non-specific, although pericarditis that is self-limiting within a few days is virtually always viral or idiopathic in origin.

The last step in the aetiological diagnosis of acute pericarditis would be pericardiocentesis and pericardial biopsy: both can provide definitive data for the diagnosis of specific pericarditis (purulent, tuberculous or neoplastic). Although their yield is not very high, 19% and 22% respectively, it can be increased to 35% when performed not only for diagnostic but also for therapeutic purposes in patients with cardiac tamponade.

Evolution
Twenty-four hours after admission, the patient began with clinical signs of haemodynamic compromise, hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnoea, together with jugular ingurgitation and paradoxical pulse. An urgent TTE was performed, revealing a moderate-severe global pericardial effusion with collapse of the right chambers, significant variations in mitral filling with respiration and dilated inferior vena cava with partial collapse, compatible with echocardiographic tamponade. Given the situation of clinical and echocardiographic tamponade, a pericardiocentesis was performed urgently with manual removal of approximately 500 cc of clearly purulent liquid, and a subxiphoid drain was placed. After this intervention, haemodynamic stability was restored and antibiotic treatment was started with ceftriaxone 1g/12 hours and vancomycin at the same doses. A chest CT scan showed persistent pericardial effusion (approximately 17 mm thick), together with moderate bilateral pleural effusion and multiple mediastinal adenopathies up to 15 mm in diameter.

Forty-eight hours after pericardial drainage, the patient remained febrile with chest pain. A new blood test revealed a leukocytosis of 30,800 leukocytes/mm3 and an elevated CRP to 390 mg/L. A control TTE showed a pericardial effusion of 8 mm in the infero-posterior side and 4 mm in the antero-lateral side, with no signs of tamponade and no window for a new puncture. Blood cultures performed on admission were negative, and Streptococcus dysgalatiae spp. equisimilis was isolated in the pericardial fluid culture. Given the persistence of clinical symptoms and poor drainage debit, the patient underwent surgery by median sternotomy. A very thickened pericardium was observed and a very thick and organised purulent fluid covering the myocardium was removed. A phrenic-to-phrenic pericardiectomy was performed, and the rest of the pericardial cavity was connected to both pleurae. Histological study of the pericardium was compatible with fibrino-purulent pericarditis and a new pericardial fluid culture was negative. The postoperative period was uneventful, he completed 4 weeks of parenteral antibiotic treatment, and was discharged asymptomatic.

Final diagnosis
Purulent pericarditis complicated with tamponade due to Streptococcus dysgalatiae spp. equisimilis.
