Personal history
45-year-old woman from Lithuania, working as a strawberry farmer in Spain for five months. She smoked ten cigarettes a day. Initially diagnosed with tuberculosis in Lithuania, undergoing treatment for four years. In 2001 she underwent a left lower lobectomy. Initially, we had no reports or other sources to verify and expand the information. However, we subsequently obtained additional information on her history: she was initially diagnosed with tuberculosis in 1995, and started treatment with five drugs (rifampicin, ethambutol, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and streptomycin), which she maintained for four years due to poor evolution. In 1999 the antibiotic regimen was changed to ofloxacin, cycloserine and amikacin. In 2001, a left lower lobectomy was performed, and after the operation, ofloxacin and cycloserine were continued for another year. There was no other history of interest.

Present illness
Since December 2004, he presented cough with mucopurulent expectoration and febrile syndrome, predominantly in the evening, accompanied by profuse sweating and unquantified weight loss. She underwent a course of antibiotic treatment without improvement. She subsequently attended the Emergency Department of the Hospital Juan Ramón Jiménez in February 2005, referred from her health centre.

Physical examination
The patient was conscious, oriented and cooperative, in good general condition, well hydrated and perfused. Eupneic at rest. Weight was 49.5 kg. Arterial oxygen saturation was 99% (FiO2 0.21), blood pressure 127/74 mmHg and temperature 40.5oC.
There were no palpable adenopathies. On auscultation, the cardiac tones were rhythmic with no murmurs, and the vesicular murmur was preserved in the right hemithorax and decreased in the left base with a tubal murmur in the left upper third and crackles in the middle and upper third. The abdomen was soft, depressible, without masses or megaliths, and in the lower limbs there were no signs of deep vein thrombosis. Peripheral pulses were full and symmetrical and the neurological examination was normal.

Complementary examinations
The red blood count was normal, leukocytes 15,900/μL (86% neutrophils, 6.8% lymphocytes), and platelets 775,000/μL. Biochemistry showed: glycaemia 132 mg/dL, creatinine 0.61 mg/dL, urea 11 mg/dL, total proteins 5.8 g/dL and ESR 113 mm/h. The rest showed no significant alterations. HIV serology was negative.
Chest X-ray showed an image of increased density in the left hemithorax with areas of basal aeration and left apex, with marked ipsilateral volume loss. There was traction of mediastinal structures towards the left hemifield and suture in the left lower lobe stump.
Fibrobronchoscopy showed inflammatory signs in the left upper lobe with oedematous mucosa and stenosis of the segmental bronchi with purulent material inside. The bronchial suture stump in the left lower lobe bronchus formed a kind of cul-de-sac and a rounded formation suggestive of granuloma was observed.

Diagnostic test
Bronchoaspirate and sputum smear microscopy: abundant acid-fast bacilli were observed. Mycobacterium tuberculosis was isolated in mycobacterial culture.

Clinical judgement
Active pulmonary tuberculosis (recurrence).

Evolution
The patient was initially treated with ceftriaxone 2 g/d and clarithromycin 500 mg/12h. After a positive smear microscopy, treatment was started with 
isoniazid 250 mg/d, rifampicin 600 mg/d, pyrazanamide 1,500 mg/d and ethambutol 1,200 mg/d, with fever persisting after two weeks of treatment. At this point he was transferred to our chronic admission hospital to continue treatment. During his stay at this centre, the febrile fever and haemoptotic sputum persisted.
Shortly afterwards, the mycobacterial culture report was received, which isolated Mycobacterium tuberculosis resistant to streptomycin, ethambutol, rifampicin, isoniazid and possibly pyrazinamide, so she was transferred to Hospital La Fuenfría in Madrid for treatment compliance in respiratory isolation.
Once there, the sensitivity study was repeated, detecting resistance to all first-line drugs except pyrazinamide and sensitivity to all second-line drugs tested, initiating treatment with levofloxacin 500 mg/day, cycloserine 250 mg/8 hours and amikacin 1 vial of 500 mg/48 hours. After four weeks of treatment, weight gain, disappearance of fever and negative smear tests were observed, and the patient was discharged for a check-up.
