We describe the clinical case of a 9-year-old male schoolboy who attended the health centre of Santa Lucia, Municipality of Itamarandiba, in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais, presenting with a clinical picture of 3 days' evolution characterised by the appearance of initially painful and pruritic lesions on the abdomen, which radiated unilaterally to the back. During the interrogation, the mother denied any family history of herpes infection and could not remember if the patient had previously suffered from chickenpox; in addition, he did not have an up-to-date vaccination schedule.

On physical examination, the patient was in good general condition, afebrile, although underweight and short for his age; he presented with pain described as throbbing and burning. The dermatological examination revealed multiple vesicles grouped in the shape of a cluster of grapes on an erythematous background that followed a dermatome pattern, located on the left side of the abdomen and radiating to the lumbar region. Based on these clinical findings, a diagnosis of herpes zoster was made and treatment was started with oral acyclovir at a dose of 20 mg/kg every 8 hours for 7 days, after which the lesions and associated symptoms disappeared.

Later, at the follow-up visit, only brownish macules indicative of hyperpigmentation following the inflammatory process were observed.

The pain disappeared on the fifth day, the lesions dried completely and after 15 days the scabs fell off without leaving sequelae. Weekly check-ups were carried out for one month and the patient had no post-infection pain.

The patient was followed up for 3 months, with no new lesions suggestive of herpes.


Diagnosis
Infantile HZ

Dermatological examination revealed multiple vesicles grouped in the shape of a cluster of grapes on an erythematous background, located on the left side of the abdomen and spreading to the lumbar region, for which herpes zoster was diagnosed. He was given appropriate treatment and the lesions and associated symptoms disappeared.

The main risk factor for childhood HZ is immunosuppression, and maternal varicella during the second trimester of pregnancy or this disease during the child's first year of life.
