A 67-year-old woman came to the emergency department with fever and general malaise.
Her relevant personal history included: hypertension with hypertensive heart disease, dyslipidaemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus for 20 years with retinopathy and nephropathy, on ambulatory haemodialysis (HD) using a tunnelled catheter (June 2012) in the right jugular vein. Implantation of a bicameral pacemaker in July 2012 due to third-degree atrioventricular block. Bronchial hyperreactivity with multiple admissions for exacerbation. Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome untreated since 2005. Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and cholelithiasis.
The patient first presented in July 2012 with a high fever and chills, with no apparent source. Physical examination showed Ta 38oC, BP 130/90 mmHg, HR 102 beats/minute, RR 20 resp/minute, saturating at 97% on room air. There was no neurological involvement and cardiorespiratory auscultation showed rhythmic tones without murmurs and normal lung sounds. Abdomen without findings. Limbs without oedema, with symmetrical and preserved distal pulses. Right jugular catheter insertion point and pacemaker generator bag without inflammatory signs. Differential blood cultures isolated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) without growth in favour of the catheter, but the same microorganism was isolated in the culture of the insertion point, so it was decided to remove the catheter 72 hours after admission. Semi-quantitative count by Maki technique was negative. Vancomycin treatment was administered via a new transitional right femoral catheter for 4 weeks, with the dose adjusted according to plasma drug levels. The patient was afebrile 24 hours after starting the antibiotic and secondary complications were ruled out after a negative blood culture at 72h and transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) with no evidence of endocarditis. On discharge, a new tunneled catheter was cannulated in the right jugular vein to continue outpatient HD.
Seven months later, in February 2013, the patient again developed a high fever of 38oC accompanied by shivering during an HD session. Blood culture again isolated Staphylococcus aureus (3 of 4 vials) with the same antibiogram as in the previous episode (MIC to vancomycin = 1 mcg/ml). On this occasion the differential blood culture growth was in favour of the catheter, with more than 24 h difference. The catheter was removed at 96 h, again with negative semi-quantitative culture of the tip. The patient was afebrile 24h after starting treatment with vancomycin, which was prolonged for 4 weeks, as in the previous episode. The control blood culture at 72h was negative and both TTE and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) showed no endocarditis or valvular heart disease. It was thought that the recurrence of catheter bacteraemia could be due to a nasal MRSA carrier state, in which case, reinfection of the new catheter could have occurred. The nasal smear was positive and decolonisation with nasal mupirocin and chlorhexidine baths for 5 days was performed.
However, in the following 6 months the patient presented up to three more bacteraemias with the same isolate (MRSA). Blood cultures of peripheral blood and those obtained through the HD catheter did not show differential growth in favour of the catheter, which is why the catheter was retained and sealed on two occasions. As in other episodes, apyrexia was achieved early and the control blood culture was negative at 72/96 hours. Decolonisation was also confirmed by a negative nasal smear (personal and family) as well as the absence of vegetations in ETT, with each event being treated for 4 weeks. In these bacteraemias the MIC of vancomycin was 1.5 mcg/ml, so the last two were treated with daptomycin. In the fifth bacteraemia, TEE, abdominal Doppler ultrasound, thoraco-abdominal CT scan and scintigraphy with marked leukocytes were performed, but no pathological findings were observed. Differential diagnosis In the case of recurrent S. aureus bacteraemia, the following causes may be considered:
- Persistent endovascular focus
- Haematogenous distant infection
- Recurrent re-infection in a patient carrying MRSA.
- Therapeutic failure of vancomycin

In the following, reference is made to the elements for and against each hypothesis:
1.- Persistent endovascular focus: the patient being a carrier of a tunnelled catheter for HD and pacemaker, but also mentioning a possible valvular endocarditis, or alternative endovascular focus (old thrombosed AVF, endarteritis, etc.):
1.1. In any patient carrying a central venous catheter with fever, catheter-related bacteraemia must be ruled out. The absence of symptoms or local inflammatory signs (tunnelitis or infection of the insertion site), and even a negative semi-quantitative culture of the catheter tip do not rule out catheter-related bacteraemia, since from one month after insertion in most cases the entry point is the catheter connections, with the microorganisms producing an intraluminal biofilm that is responsible for the persistence of the infection. Thus, both the negative culture of the removed catheter tip and the absence of local symptoms do not rule out that the bacteraemia is due to the catheter.
1.2. Differential blood cultures (one obtained from peripheral blood and another obtained simultaneously through the catheter with calculation of the difference in growth time) have been a widely used strategy in the diagnosis of catheter-related bacteraemias when preservation of the line is desired. However, its values as a diagnostic test have recently been reviewed and its specificity and positive predictive value are low, which compromises its usefulness and reflects the need for clinical contextualisation, as well as the use of other complementary tests, in patients with bacteraemias and various intravascular devices. Recall that this technique was ideally designed for profoundly immunocompromised patients3. Despite this, in clinical practice it is a widely used tool, and for the case studied, it was still considered that the catheter was always the focus of the bacteraemia despite the fact that the differential blood cultures did not indicate this, bearing in mind that its value is not decisive and that the clinician's suspicion prevails.
1.3. Several tests were performed (abdominal ultrasound, thoracic-abdominal CT scan, scintigraphy marked with Tc99 leukocytes and multiple TT and TE echocardiographies), always without findings, so that the diagnoses of endarterial, valvular or pacemaker lead infection were ruled out in principle.  1.4. In S. aureus bacteraemias (and other aggressive germs), devices potentially responsible for the infection should always be removed. In this case, removal of the tunneled HD catheter as well as the pacemaker was delayed (sometimes even omitted) because in two episodes there were blood cultures with differential counts that supported the origin of the infection in the dialysis catheter, which is usually the most frequent cause. In addition, there were no local symptoms at the generator level and no vegetations on the leads. On the other hand, the removal of the pacemaker in this patient was life-threatening due to her significant comorbidity and dependence on the pacemaker. However, in up to 15-20% of cases with systemic pacemaker infection, there is an absence of local inflammatory signs due to secondary seeding on the leads from a distant source or primary progression from the generator, but with few local signs that may go unnoticed9. The presence of vegetations on the lead (or even on the tricuspid valve) supports this diagnosis, but the yield of TEE in these cases does not exceed 60% in expert hands9 , which is why the use of nuclear medicine methods has been proposed to support the diagnosis. In 2013, there was an absence of studies clearly demonstrating the superiority of PET-CT over scintigraphy, so for cost-effectiveness reasons the latter was chosen in this case. Recently, studies have been published that support the use of PET-CT or SPECT-CT6,10. The fact that the scan had a negative result could be justified by the low inflammatory reaction that some patients show (elderly, immunocompromised, nephropathic, etc.), and the antibiotic therapy received for weeks before the test.
2.- Inadvertent haematogenous distant infection: spondylodiscitis, other osteoarticular infections and splenic infarcts were ruled out by the various tests already mentioned.
3.- Recurrent re-infections in patients carrying MRSA, either due to re-infections with their own reservoir or in another member of their environment. The patient underwent a nasal swab and tested positive for MRSA with the same antibiogram as in the blood culture. Personal decolonisation and decolonisation of the family nucleus was carried out in the third and fourth bacteraemia, respectively, but the patient continued with the episodes.
Therapeutic failure of vancomycin, either due to insufficient treatment or due to creeping phenomenon (progressive increase in MIC during prolonged periods of exposure to the drug due to an increase in the thickness of the bacterial wall). The first possibility seems unlikely because it duly completed four weeks, as it was considered to be complicated bacteraemia due to S. aureus in a patient with risk factors (pacemaker carrier). The second option also seems unlikely because:
4.1. In all episodes the patient was afebrile in the first 24 hours, and blood cultures were rapidly negative, which supports the effectiveness of the drug. The problem arose because of the frequent recurrences after discontinuation of the drug, which is the clinical course typical of infections with a persistent focus that has not been eradicated.
In addition, all MICs were checked by manual method (E-test), and vancomycin levels were closely monitored to ensure therapeutic range.
4.3. In this case, therefore, the increase in MIC could be explained by the retention of the foreign body responsible for the infection, leading to the production of biofilms that prevented healing of the infection, and within which there could be bacteria exposed to sub-therapeutic concentrations of the drug. In any case, we should not forget the high inter-assay variability of the E-test method, which could have led to different MICs being obtained in the different consecutive determinations.

Evolution
Given the persistence of bacteraemia due to the same microorganism, with differential blood cultures not always in favour of the central catheter, but with no other apparent focal point, prolonged treatment with daptomycin, multiple HD catheter replacements and decontamination of the patient and her family, it was finally decided to remove the pacemaker despite the absence of inflammatory signs in the pectoral area or radiological data of infection, but assuming that the pacemaker was the only endovascular material that had not been removed since the onset of the condition that could be perpetuating it. Surprisingly, during the operation, abundant purulent chocolate-coloured material was observed in the generator bag. The generator and leads were then removed by percutaneous traction, without incident, and another permanent pacemaker was placed via the femoral artery to free the upper vascular accesses. Cultures of the granuloma of the bursa and the removed leads were positive for MRSA. After five years of follow-up the patient has had no further bacteraemia.

Final diagnosis
Recurrent MRSA bacteraemia complicated by pacemaker infection in a haemodialysis patient with delayed removal.
