Anamnesis
91-year-old woman with senile dementia, arterial hypertension, cholecystectomy, right hip prosthesis, appendectomy, hysterectomy and double adnexectomy for ovarian cancer and intestinal diverticular disease with numerous admissions to the Digestive System Department of our hospital for intestinal pseudo-occlusive symptoms. Urological-digestive history: stress urinary incontinence, repeated urinary tract infections (with positive urine cultures for Escherichia coli and Enterococcus faecalis).
He consulted the urology department for episodes of hypogastric discomfort accompanied by dysuria, occasional haematuria and frequent emission of foul-smelling, choluric urine. He was admitted to the General Surgery Department at the end of the year for intestinal occlusive symptoms and fever. A computed tomography (CT) scan showed diverticulosis + perisigmoid fatty infiltration + fistulisation of the sigma and bladder on the left postero-lateral side + pneumocystis + image of "bladder lithiasis" of 1.5 cm. An unloading colostomy and surgical closure of the fistula were performed.
Two months after surgery, the patient returned to the urology department due to persistent dysuria, haematuria and discomfort in the hypogastrium, although the choluric and foul-smelling urine had disappeared after the previous operation. The ultrasound and the control CT scan showed an image suggestive of a 1.5 cm "lithiasis" in the bladder, already described in the CT scan prior to surgery.

Treatment
Endoscopic extraction-fragmentation of this lithiasis was decided as treatment. Endoscopic examination of the bladder lithiasis only succeeded in fragmenting the peripheral calcific shell, identifying a hard core that could not be fragmented by means of endoscopic pneumatic lithotripsy. Due to the extreme hardness, it was decided not to continue with endovesical lithotripsy and the lithiasis was extracted with the support of a 26 Ch nephroscope and Dormia basket. On analysing the "lithiasis" on the operating table, our surprise was that the lithiasis mould corresponded to a stone from a fruit, probably a plum.
The elderly patient, who had difficulty chewing, had swallowed a plum more than 6 months previously, involuntarily swallowed the stone of this fruit, which on reaching the intestinal tract and through the colovesical fistula she had due to her intestinal diverticular disease, became lodged in her bladder. After removal of the endovesical bone, the clinical symptoms of dysuria and haematuria disappeared.
