Reason for consultation
Dyspnoea, cough and fever.

Individual approach (anamnesis, examination, complementary tests).
Anamnesis: 84 year old man who came to our clinic reporting dyspnoea together with cough, increasing whitish expectoration and fever of 37.1oC of 48 hours of evolution.

The most relevant personal antecedents are COPD of long evolution in treatment with home oxygen, arterial hypertension with hypertensive heart disease and congestive heart failure, as well as benign prostatic hypertrophy. Currently anticoagulated with sintrom.

Examination: the patient was in good general condition, well hydrated and perfused, conscious, oriented in all three spheres and cooperative.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation with rhonchi and scattered wheezing in both lung fields together with a SaO2 of 90% and marked respiratory work with tugging and tachypnoea. Temperature at consultation was 38oC.
The lower limbs were not oedematous and there were no signs suggestive of deep vein thrombosis.

Complementary tests: an outpatient chest X-ray was performed in postero-anterior and lateral projections at the health centre, showing right pulmonary condensation together with left pleural effusion. Thus, and given the examination presented by the patient, it was decided to refer him to the emergency department of the reference hospital for further analytical tests.

A haemogram and blood biochemistry were requested together with serology for pneumococcus and legionella pneumophila. Serology for the aforementioned microorganisms was negative. The haemogram showed 15,000 leukocytes with the rest of the blood series normal. The biochemistry showed a CRP of 20.45, with normal renal function and the rest of the other devices.

Family and community approach
He lives with his wife and is independent for ADLs and IADLs. He has good family support, with a medium-low socio-economic level. He has regular follow-up of his chronic pathology at the health centre.

Clinical judgement (list of problems, differential diagnosis)
Clinical judgement 1: Community-acquired pneumonia.
Clinical judgement 2: Decompensated heart failure.

Action plan and evolution
Empirical antibiotic treatment is adjusted and the patient is referred to the reference hospital, where he is finally admitted after confirmation of COPD exacerbation secondary to community-acquired pneumonia, as well as decompensated heart failure.

Evolution: after a hospital stay of 11 days, the patient's symptoms evolved adequately, and he was discharged with adjustment of treatment and subsequent follow-up by the pulmonology department.
