Reason for consultation
A 45 year old man came for consultation, referred by his neurologist who was studying him for insomnia. The patient reports that for a couple of years he has barely been able to fall asleep "no more than two hours a day". He reports marked insomnia of conciliation and maintenance, to such an extent that he has given up his profession and practically all activity, due to the tiredness he says he suffers. Occasionally, she says, she manages to sleep for a few hours in the middle of the morning. He has tried different patterns of pharmacological treatment without success, he says. He acknowledges that this condition has had a major impact on his life. Neurology has carried out various tests without finding any organic cause. The real reason for referral to this specialist, explained in the interconsultation report, is not so much the insomnia itself but the repercussions it is having on the patient's mood and activity. In the consultation, the patient is wary of the referral. He focuses all his discourse on the persistent insomnia and the repercussions it has on his day-to-day life.

Psychiatric history
However, the same patient had consulted two years earlier, accompanied by his sisters and at their request. They reported that he was very suspicious of the neighbourhood, and that the deterioration in his social and personal life had been evident for a couple of years. A neighbour alerted the sisters "because he looked very bad". The patient reportedly complained of abdominal and chest pain "caused by telekinesis ... a neighbour who is a witch causes them". He hardly ever left the house, the sisters said, he did not eat (he had lost 20 kilos in a few weeks), he was scolding the neighbours and had placed various objects around the house to "ward off evil spirits". At that time, the patient smoked 7-8 joints a day. He had already given up his profession and lived in seclusion at home, keeping in contact only with his sisters, who came to the house to visit him and help him with basic tasks.

The patient's personal history included a previous psychotic episode. It had occurred 7 years earlier and remitted, apparently ad integrum, after abstinence from cannabis and pharmacological treatment. At that time the patient believed that his work colleagues were spying on him and spitting on him, and he was suspicious of his surroundings. From what the family reported, even then it seemed more like a paranoid development than a schizophrenic disorder.

On that first visit to the CSM, he was advised to abstain from substance abuse and to start a course of treatment with antipsychotics. He was also put in contact with the drug care resources, and an organic assessment by his MAP was recommended. On that occasion the patient did not return to subsequent visits.

Current episode
With all this information, the patient's situation was checked at the current visit. He reports having achieved absolute abstinence from cannabis after the previous visit, although he only took the pharmacological treatment for a couple of days. The gastric discomfort turned out to have an organic cause, a gastric ulcer that even perforated and required emergency intervention. He is not very keen to comment on the possible causes of the current situation. He is suspicious and does not want to go into his ideas in depth. He does recognise that there are still problems with the neighbours. He insists, in passing, that the neighbours use witchcraft to influence and harm him, and that this could also be the reason for his insomnia. For him, the previous gastric disease is a good proof that his delusions were and are real. In any case, he does not accept as possible a mistake in his thinking. Although he apparently accepts pharmacological treatment, in reality he does not take it because "I am not crazy". What does seem to be true is that at present and for at least 1 year, he does not use cannabis or any other substance.
