A 76-year-old man, hypertensive, dyslipidaemic, with low alcohol consumption, mild splenomegaly of non-filial origin, and a history of acute cholangitis with secondary bacteraemia due to Klebsiella oxytoca in 2013. He underwent surgery for adenocarcinoma of the prostate in 2013, without tumour recurrence.
Admitted for asthenia and febrile syndrome with no other accompanying infectious focality. He denied recent trips abroad, animals at home or contact with the countryside. Laboratory tests showed pancytopenia (Hb 8.8, platelets 64,000, leukocytes 1100, neutrophils 600), CRP 84.8 and coagulopathy, with no interesting findings on chest X-ray or urine sediment. An abdominopelvic CT scan was performed showing splenomegaly measuring 19 cm. Blood cultures were taken and empirical broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy (Meropenem) was started. It was decided to complete the study of lymphocyte populations, with no notable alterations, and a bone marrow aspirate puncture showed hyperplasia of red blood cells with no evidence of dysplasia, with a medulogram compatible with a reactive process. The detection of antibodies to HIV, hepatotropic viruses, CMV, EBV, Rickettsia, Leishmania was negative, but given the high clinical suspicion, the study was extended with PCR for Leishmania in peripheral blood, which was positive. With the result of probable visceral Leishmaniasis, treatment was started with liposomal amphotericin B at a dose of 3 mg/kg/day on days 1-5, 14 and 21, with good evolution and negative PCR for Leishmania on day +5. As an adverse effect of the treatment, renal function deteriorated with a peak creatinine level of 2.1.
After discharge from hospital, the patient was followed up in our consulting rooms, the patient was asymptomatic with normal renal function and a positive serology for Leishmania at 1/320.
On the other hand, a review of the bone marrow aspirate was performed by Microbiology, which, on applying Giemsa stain, observed Leishmania amastigotes and promastigotes.
This is an acute infection by Leishmania in a patient with no clear epidemiological history, a rare disease in our environment because it does not correspond to an endemic area.
