A 38-year-old patient attended the emergency department of our hospital with an erythematous and pruritic macular eruption that started on the forehead, eyelids and cheeks and later spread to the neck, antecubital and popliteal flexures, inner thighs and upper buttocks. He was treated with corticosteroids and antihistamines, with improvement of the symptoms, evolving with desquamation. Two days before the symptoms appeared, he had applied an oil called "Ayurvedic Neem Oil" (100% Azadirachta indica) to the affected areas. He recalls that 2 years earlier he had a facial rash that coincided with the application of this oil. She does not handle glues, adhesives or paints. She has not applied any topical NSAIDs or taken any medication.
We began the study with epicutaneous tests with the True Test® battery extended with a mixture of perfumes II, Lyral and palladium and with a battery of essential oils from Martí Tor Alergia® (essence of bergamot, cedar, clove, laurel, eucalyptus, lavender, lemon grass, lime, lemon, mint, orange, neroli and sandalwood), which were negative at 48 and 96 hours. Ayurvedic Neem oil" was also patch tested as is with positive result (++) in both readings. Subsequently 10 control patients were tested with the same oil and all were negative.
In view of the results, the study was completed with argan oil, rosehip oil, with a specific series of perfumes (amylcinnamic alcohol, amyl cinnamic aldehyde, anysyl alcohol, benzaldehyde, benzyl alcohol, benzyl cinnamate, benzyl salycilate, bensylbenzoate, bioban, cinnamic alcohol, cinnamic aldehyde, citral, citronella, citronellol, coumarin, d-limonene, eugenol, farnesol, perfume blend II, geraniol, hexyllcinnamic aldehyde, hydroxycitronellal, isoeugenol, lyral, musk ambrette, oak moss absolute, oil cedar, oil neroli, oil bergamot, oil of cinnamon, oil of cloves, oil of eucalyptus, oil of laurel, oil of lemon, oil of lemon grass, oil of rose, oil of rosemary, phenyl salicilate, salicylaldehide, vanillin) and with a battery of plants (achillea millefolium, alantolactone, arnica montana, chamomilla romana, chrysanthemum cineariaefolium, diallyl disulfhide, holm oak moss absolute, primin, propolis, tanacetum vulgare, taraxacum officinale, ac. usnic acid, alpha-methylene-gamma-butyrolactone, alpha-papinene and Scandinavian turpentine), both from Martí Tor Alergia®, obtaining only a weak positive test for alpha-papinene at 48 and 96 hours.
