A 46-year-old man with diabetes mellitus since the age of 26, treated with metformin 850mg/vildagliptin 50mg every 12 hours and glicazide 60mg every 12 hours, monitored by his primary care doctor. Four days ago he was admitted to the observation area for diabetic ketoacidosis decompensated by sinusitis, discharged with insulin glargine 18UI and moxifloxacin.

Today he came to the emergency department for decompensated diabetic ketoacidosis due to pansinusitis predominantly ethmoidal with visual impairment. Examination showed Glasgow 15, preserved strength and sensitivity, with paralysis of the left oculo-motor muscles.

Blood tests: leukocytosis (20,500) with left deviation (88% neutrophils) and elevated acute phase reactants. Venous blood gas analysis: pH: 6.99, PCO2: 24, HCO3: 6.1. A cranial CT scan showed occupation of the frontal sinuses and ethmoid cells by soft tissue density material, and thickening of the mucosa of the sphenoid sinus and left maxilla. Treatment was started with insulin perfusion, serotherapy and antibiotherapy, and after stabilisation the patient was admitted to the Otorhinolaryngology Department.

We were consulted on the ward for assessment of insulin treatment due to hypoglycaemia and ionic readjustment (moderate hypokalaemia). We reduced basal insulin, increased potassium levels in serum and requested a blood test for diabetes mellitus.
On examination on the ward by Otorhinolaryngology, he presented with infiltration of the hard palate by blackish material and endoscopic nasosinusal surgery was performed with sampling.

He was assessed by Neurology, which requested a cranial MRI scan showing: findings suggestive of rhinosinusitis with associated encephalitis and cavernous sinus thrombosis, with a fungal aetiology to be assessed.

In view of these findings, treatment was started with amphotericin B and caspofungin and surgery was performed (frontobasal craniotomy, cranialisation of the frontal sinus and cerebritis excision).

In AP, non-septate hyphae with branching between 45-90 degrees were observed, compatible with mucor spp.

The patient was on parenteral nutrition plus insulin adjustment. On the eleventh day of admission the patient's blood tests showed a natraemia of 156, with decreased urinary osmolarity, presenting diuresis in 24 hours of 5600cc, leading to the diagnosis of diabetes insipidus with a central component (infiltration) and nephrogenic (amphotericin B). Desmopressin 1mcg was prescribed conditional to diuresis greater than 1400cc every 8 hours, decreasing diuresis to 3700cc.

A few days later, the patient suffered adult respiratory distress with bilateral pulmonary infiltration, with desaturation and cardiorespiratory arrest that ended in exitus.
