A 27-year-old woman presented with intense asthenia, anorexia, weight loss and fever of two weeks' evolution. She denies insect bites, exotic travel or risky sexual relations. A year ago she was admitted with similar symptoms, which resolved spontaneously, without becoming filial. She presented with hypochromic microcytic anaemia, which was treated with oral iron without improvement. On examination, BP 90/55 mmHg, HR 104 bpm, Ta 38.5oC. Adenopathic package not adherent to deep planes, not erythematous or hot, with periadenopathic soft component in the left subaxillary region and multiple erythematous-edematous papules on the face, trunk and upper extremities. The rest was normal. Complementary tests in the ED: hypochromic microcytic anaemia (Hb 9.6 g/dl), leukocytes 7260/μl, lymphopenia (700/μl) and CRP 3.8 mg/dl. Liver and renal function (including urine) normal. Chest X-ray without alterations. HIV rapid test negative. Admitted for study.
Further examination on the ward. Leukocytosis with marked lymphopenia, decrease in CD3, CD8, NKCD56 and CD19 lymphocytes. Antinuclear antibodies + >1/640, with a mottled pattern. Rheumatoid factor 681 IU/mL. IgG 2630 mg/dl. Anti-SSA/Ro, anti-RNP/Sm and anti-Sm positive. Anti-SSB/La and ANCAs negative. Serology: CMV IgM+. CMV copy quantification negative. Quantiferon, EBV, Leishmania, Mycoplasma, Rose Bengal and treponemal screening negative. Subsequently 2500 leukocytes: neutropenia and lymphopenia. Initially treated with ceftriaxone. She continues with febrile peaks and skin lesions increase. A dose of doxycycline was administered, which was discontinued due to digestive intolerance. A skin biopsy of one of the papular lesions was performed, which was reported as necrotic keratinocytes associated with a perivascular and interstitial lymphohistiocytic inflammatory infiltrate, without neutrophils or eosinophils, and no tumour cells were seen.
Thoracic-abdominal-pelvic CT scan: bilateral axillary adenopathies, mild hepatosplenomegaly, mild pleural effusion and thickening of the interlobular septa, and a nodule adjacent to the outer infero-outer quadrant of the left breast, suggestive of necrotic adenopathy. Asymmetry in the left chest wall musculature with bands of fluid in subcutaneous and intermuscular planes.
A costal adenopathy was biopsied: multifocal non-suppurative necrotising lymphadenitis, with predominance of CD3/CD8+ T lymphocytes, presence of granzyme B positive cells and histiocytes (CD68+), compatible with Kikuchi's disease. Absence of neoplastic cells and Reed-Sternberg. Negative staining for EBV.
The patient improved without antibiotics, the fever subsided and the papules changed to smaller macules. The lymphadenopathies eventually disappear. The patient was diagnosed with Kikuchi's disease, with haematological and cutaneous involvement, and fulfils the criteria for lupus.
