A 36-year-old woman with restrictive-purgative anorexia nervosa and unfavourable evolution; DM1 with poor metabolic control, without complications; primary hypothyroidism; focal epilepsy with complex partial seizures and autolytic attempt with caustic ingestion with oesophageal stenosis requiring right oesophagoplasty and ileoduodenostomy with 4 reinterventions for evisceration and occlusion by oesophageal bridging and dilatation, as well as multiple admissions for pneumonia due to bronchoaspiration.
Admitted for diarrhoea (10 stools/day) for 4 days associated with general malaise and oral intolerance. Examination: hypotension + signs of dehydration. Right jugular vein was cannulated, presenting laterocervical haemorrhage, requiring orotracheal intubation and new central line cannulation. She presented with adult respiratory distress syndrome. After stabilisation, a nutritional assessment was performed with weight 32kg and BMI 11.3kg/m2 and blood tests showed anaemia, HbA1c7.1%, TSH 34.44 IU/ml, T4l 6.3pmol/l, cortisol 28.86mg/dl, FSH 3.37mIU/ml, LH 1.79mIU/ml, estradiol 5.0pg/ml. Continuous enteral nutrition by NGUS and phosphorus, magnesium, potassium and thiamine supplements were started. Endoscopy was performed in view of multiple NGUS outflows and dilatation of oesophageal stricture and placement of SNY, adding TPN to meet requirements.
During admission, glycaemic control was complicated, with glycaemic variability in relation to the administration of nutrition and self-disconnection and starting of the NGUS.

The patient began with febrile symptoms, ruling out ketoacidosis, and was started on Piperacillin-Tazobactam 4g/8h. Three days later, she developed pustulosis and oedema in the MMSS, a Doppler ultrasound showed thrombus in the basilic and greater cephalic vein in the MSD and thrombus occupying the caudal half of the segment of the left internal jugular vein and left subclavian vein in relation to thrombophlebitis; Bemiparin sodium 5000 IUI and Linezolid 600mg/12h were added to the treatment. Candida albicans was isolated in central venous catheter, blood culture and pustular secretion and Fluconazole 400mg/24h was started. Transesophageal echocardiography could not be performed to rule out endocarditis, but there were no pathological findings in transthoracic echocardiography and candidemic endophthalmitis was ruled out. Chest CT scan showed a pattern of predominantly subpleural micronodules - a pulmonary manifestation of candidiasis. The diarrhoeal symptoms were studied and were compatible with malabsorptive symptoms. Subsequently, pseudomebranous colitis was confirmed.
Finally, the patient was discharged from hospital after improvement in nutritional status (increase of 13.2kg - IMC 16.1), glycaemic control and diarrhoea. In addition, the febrile symptoms resolved and the patient showed a favourable evolution of septic thrombophlebitis of the central vein.
