Personal history
Male, 24 years old, from Morocco, resident in Spain for two years, with no subsequent trips to his country. Active smoker of twenty cigarettes/day, with no other history of interest.

Current illness
The patient had been admitted to hospital in September 2003 for a cough of two months' duration, with no other accompanying symptoms. On the day prior to the current admission, he presented with frank haemoptysis and chest pain.

Physical examination
No relevant findings.

Complementary examinations
The haemogram and coagulation study were normal. General biochemistry (including renal and hepatic profiles, total proteins, and serum immunoglobulins) was normal, sedimentation rate was 62 mm/h and CRP 5.4 mg/L. Antinuclear antibodies were negative. Baseline arterial blood gases were also normal. Mantoux intradermal reaction was negative. HIV serology was negative. Sputum culture showed usual oropharyngeal flora and smears were negative. Chest X-ray showed a left parahilar mass and chest CT scan showed a mass in the anterior segment of the left upper lobe, 5x4 centimetres in diameter, with poorly defined contours, heterogeneous content with cavitation inside and no locoregional adenopathies. Bronchoscopy revealed a hard whitish formation that emerged in the anterior segment of the left upper lobe, oscillated with respiratory movements and partially occluded the bronchus. The surrounding bronchial mucosa was normal. Samples were taken for microbiology (aerobic and fungal culture and investigation of acid-fast bacilli, the result of which was negative, although pending mycobacterial culture), and biopsy (absence of neoplastic cells, chronic active inflammation, without granulomas and with fibrino-leukocyte fragments).

Evolution
The patient persisted with moderate haemoptysis, without fever or constitutional symptoms and with a preserved general condition. After biopsy of the mass, he developed an alveolar infiltrate in the left upper lobe with respiratory insufficiency (compatible with obstructive pneumonitis), which improved clinically and radiologically with empirical broad-spectrum antibiotherapy (imipenem and tobramycin). He was discharged from hospital with diagnoses of left upper lobe mass under study, moderate haemoptysis, obstructive pneumonitis, nosocomial respiratory infection and acute respiratory failure resolved. No specific treatment was prescribed after discharge.
In November 2003, the results of the mycobacterial culture of the initial sputum were received, in which Mycobacterium tuberculosis was isolated, and anti-tuberculosis treatment was started with four drugs (isoniazid, rifampicin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol -HRZE-). A sensitivity study subsequently confirmed that the strain was sensitive to all first-line drugs. The clinical course after initiation of treatment was favourable, with normalisation of acute phase reactants. However, after completing six months of correct treatment (2HRZE + 4HR), with good adherence, the patient continued with intermittent moderate haemoptysis and persistence of the mass in the anterior segment of the left upper lobe of similar size and radiological characteristics (plain radiography and chest CT), except for the appearance of bilateral hilar adenopathies (predominantly right and up to 2 cm in diameter, not present at the beginning of the picture). A new blood test revealed elevated ACE levels (83 IU/L), while the haemogram values remained normal (no anaemia despite intermittent haemoptysis and no leukocytosis).
In this context, a new fibrobronchoscopy was performed, with similar findings to the previous one, showing in the biopsy of the mass an organised and compact mucoid material, in which few eosinophils were supernatant, without recognising bronchial tissue, microorganisms or neoplastic structures.

Diagnostic test
An open thoracotomy was performed and the mass was found to be a hydatid cyst.

Clinical judgement
Active pulmonary tuberculosis. Simultaneous pulmonary hydatid disease.
