Anamnesis
A 37-year-old man, with no medical or surgical history of interest, presented to the Emergency Department with a clinical picture of sudden onset of unilateral mydriasis and blurred vision while working at the computer. When he covered his eyes, first one and then the other, he noticed that he could see worse with his left eye. His wife told him that his left pupil was dilated. No history of headache, no nausea or vomiting. No loss of strength or sensory disturbance.
In view of this finding, the patient was admitted to the Neurology Department. Once hospitalised, he was assessed and re-examined by the neurologist. The patient commented that prior to the onset of the described symptoms he had been handling plants. He reported having a garden at home and engaging in gardening activities on a regular basis. However, on the evening prior to his admission he came into contact with a new plant, which he had never handled before, with purple bell-shaped flowers and shiny black berries. He commented that he had been cutting some fleshy leaves and, without washing his hands, he touched his face and put on his glasses. After 15 minutes he started showing the signs and symptoms that prompted him to go to the emergency department.

Physical examination
The general physical examination was unremarkable. The neurological examination showed anisocoria with mydriasis arreactiva of the left pupil. The rest of the neurological examination showed no alterations.

Complementary tests
- CBC: blood count, biochemistry and basic coagulation within normal limits.
- Chest X-ray: no evidence of acute pleuropulmonary pathology.
- Cranial CT scan: normal.
- Pilocarpine test: no miosis in response to 1% pilocarpine.

Diagnosis
Pharmacological mydriasis secondary to contact with Atropa belladonna.

Treatment and evolution
Given the suspicion of toxic mydriasis due to contact with plants, the patient remained under observation. After showing him photographs of the different toxic plant species, it was confirmed that the plant responsible was Atropa belladonna.
The evolution was favourable. After 48 hours he presented complete recovery of the visual deficit and normalisation of the pupillary diameter and reflex response.
