This is a 24-year-old woman with unstable type 1 diabetes mellitus.
She was diagnosed with diabetes at four years of age after a metabolic syndrome, has extrinsic bronchial asthma (which she controlled with immunotherapy) and no chronic complications related to diabetes.
She had good metabolic control until puberty but since then has had several admissions for diabetic ketoacidosis and poor chronic metabolic control (HbA1c=11.8.).
Two years ago, treatment was started with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion on pump with improved metabolic control (HbA1c=8.2). However, a few months later, he was admitted again with ketoacidosis. On this occasion, the condition was accompanied by general malaise, abdominal pain and febrile fever.
On admission, elevated acute phase reactants and an analytical pattern typical of cholestasis were observed. Chest X-ray and abdominal ultrasound were normal, as well as urine sediment. Blood cultures were taken and were positive for Gram-negative germs, and antibiotic treatment was started, adjusted according to the antibiogram.
In view of the suspicion of acute cholangitis, a cholangioresonance scan was requested, which revealed an anatomical variant of the cystic duct, although it was not clear whether this anomaly justified the clinical manifestations. The patient continued with febrile peaks and persistently positive blood cultures for different Gram-negative germs increasingly resistant to the prescribed antibiotics. During all this time, metabolic control was very irregular, despite treatment with intravenous insulin in continuous perfusion, requiring insulin doses ranging from fifteen to ninety units per day and alternating prolonged hypoglycaemia with episodes of ketotic hyperglycaemia.
For all these reasons, it was decided to perform an exploratory laparotomy with cholecystectomy, the anatomopathological study of which revealed a slight inflammation of the bile ducts, which could be related to a sepsis liver or acute cholangitis.
After the operation, the patient remained afebrile for a week and improved metabolic control, but after this time there were new febrile peaks with positive blood cultures. The following tests were performed, all of them without pathology: cranial, sinus and thoracic-abdominal CT, gastroscopy and colonoscopy with biopsy, gastrointestinal transit, gallium scintigraphy, echocardiography and ERCP.
After this, the symptoms resolved spontaneously and the patient was discharged with a diagnosis of bacteraemia of unaffiliated origin.
Three months later, she presented a new episode of ketoacidosis, this time without accompanying infectious symptoms. The patient denies insulin omission or dietary transgressions. However, on downloading the data from the insulin pump, we observed several irregularities. (omission of bolus and basal, administration of nocturnal bolus).
During admission, she again presented very irregular metabolic control with large variations in plasma glycaemia levels, despite intensive insulin treatment, and it was therefore decided to transfer her to another referral hospital.
At this centre, the patient persisted with poor glycaemic control, alternating episodes of ketoacidosis with profound and prolonged hypoglycaemias, so she was diagnosed with unstable diabetes mellitus and underwent a pancreas transplant. 48 hours after the transplant, a transplantectomy was necessary following thrombosis of the splenic vein and necrosis of the graft.
The patient is currently being treated with continuous subcutaneous insulin by means of an infusion pump, persists with poor metabolic control (HbA1c=10.9) and has presented three admissions for ketoacidosis in the last 6 months, one of them accompanied by fever and positive blood cultures for oral and vaginal flora germs simultaneously.
