45-year-old male with a history of chronic HIV infection stage A2 on treatment with ABC/3TC and NVP since 2011, with CD4+ 100&/mm3 and HIV CV < 20 cop/mL at his last check-up and chronic migraine without aura being monitored by neurology and treated with flunarizine 5mg a day and rizatriptan 10mg during attacks. In December 2013, she started a 4-day course of symptoms characterised by intense left migraine-type pain associated with retroocular and periorbital pain and ipsilateral transient ptosis, with slight asymmetry in the left eyelid opening, without other findings or meningeal signs, without lacrimation or conjunctival injection, where a brain CT scan was performed without significant findings, funduscopic examination without evidence of papilledema and ESR 104 mm/h was observed. At no time did she present with mandibular claudication or fever. In view of the changes in the characteristics of the usual headache, it was decided to admit the patient for further investigation. Doppler ultrasound of the temporal artery showed no pathological findings. Cerebral and orbital MRI was also normal. Laboratory tests showed dissociated cholostasis: alkaline phosphatase 267 U/L, GGT 222 U/L total bilirubin 0.3 mg/dl GOT 18 GPT 25 U/L, so abdominal ultrasound was performed, showing a hypoechogenic and hypovascularised solid liver lesion in segment 4, suggestive of a metastatic lesion. Following this finding, an abdominal CT scan was requested, showing an area of heterogeneous contrast uptake in segment 4A, poorly delimited, with a maximum diameter of about 5 cm and the presence of several hypodense images within it, and there may also be hypodense foci in the vicinity. The lesion is not suggestive of metastasis although it cannot be ruled out and could be related to cholangiocarcinoma or even to an infectious/inflammatory aetiology. The result of the serum serology was received with RPR 1/256, FTA- abs +, Total Treponema pallidum Ac +. Given the suspicion that the headache could be related to neurosyphilis, a lumbar puncture was performed and treatment was started with Penicillin G Na+ IV, obtaining the following results: 3 lymphocytes, proteins 34 mg/dl VDRL negative, PCR T pallidum negative. Therefore, neurosyphilis was ruled out, initially diagnosing latent syphilis of undetermined duration, changing the treatment to penicillin G benzathine 2.4 MU IM weekly for 3 weeks. After starting penicillin, the patient reported a marked improvement in headache and general condition. A biopsy of the liver lesion was requested. During the procedure, it was noted that the lesion had decreased in size (12mm), so the biopsy was not performed and only a FNA sample was obtained, which showed mature hepatocytes without atypia. This reduction in the size of the lesion was accompanied by a decrease in the colostasis enzymes and an improvement during admission, which led us to believe that the clinical-radiological picture could all be related to tertiary hepatic gomatous syphilis. After completing 3 doses of IM penicillin G benzathine, in May 2014 a control ultrasound was performed, showing no hepatic lesions, and the control analysis no longer showed a cholestatic pattern (FA 88U/L, GGT 51 U/L, GOT 14, GPT 21 U/L). The control RPR is 1/8. Syphilis, a sexually transmitted disease caused by the spirochete Treponema pallidum, can mimic a variety of conditions.
