Anamnesis
A 37-year-old man with no personal history of interest came for consultation with pustular lesions on the right hand of 4 months' evolution. He reported that 4 months earlier, during a visit to a zoo, he had been bitten by an albino tiger cub and had not undergone local treatment or antibiotic prophylaxis. The animal was healthy and correctly vaccinated according to the zoo veterinarian. After the wound had healed, progressive local desquamation of the skin appeared, followed shortly afterwards by papular lesions that evolved into pustules, progressively increasing in number and size. In the anamnesis by organs and apparatus, the patient reported no fever or other accompanying symptoms. Three days before coming to the clinic she had started empirical treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 500 mg/8 h v.o. without improvement.

Physical examination
On the dorsal ulnar border of the right hand there was an inflammatory erythematous plaque with well-defined borders and abundant yellowish pustules, extending to the palm. On the dorsum of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger, corresponding to the area of the bite, there is an increase in soft tissue with intense erythema, increased local temperature and pustules. No regional loco-regional lymphadenopathies are palpable.

Complementary tests
A skin biopsy of the area of increased inflammation revealed acute abscessifying inflammation in the dermis, predominantly in areas close to follicles, with the presence of filamentous fungal structures and accompanied by histiocytes and multinucleated giant cells, as well as a small granuloma. Bacterial culture of the biopsy, Lowenstein and Zhiel-Nielsen were negative. Fungal culture of the biopsy isolated Trichophyton mentagrophytes.

Diagnosis
Majocchi granuloma on the hand.

Treatment
Itraconazole 100 mg/12h and Ciclopirox olamine cream every 12h were started.

Evolution
The patient has evolved satisfactorily, with disappearance of the erythema and pustules after 6 weeks of treatment and persistence of discrete violaceous inflammation on the dorsum of the 1st phalanx of the 5th finger. Currently, she continues treatment for 3 months.
