A case of mucosal lesion is presented in a 48-year-old male patient, married, a Venezuelan forestry engineer, living in the city of Mérida in western Venezuela. Due to his occupation, he reports frequent visits to forests in the Andean foothills of the states of Mérida, Trujillo, Táchira and Barinas, as well as the plains localities of the state of Apure and others in the state of Bolívar, in southern Venezuela, including the Gran Sabana, Imataca and El Dorado. The patient claims to have spent long periods of time in localities where leishmaniasis is considered endemic and states that he recognises the insects incriminated as transmitters of Leishmania. He also states that he has not presented any primary skin lesions attributed to this parasitosis. The patient's clinical history dates back to 1996, when he reported having suffered discomfort with bleeding from the nostrils and crusting of the nasal septum. The following year, an examination by an ENT doctor revealed a lesion on the nasal septum. Referred to a dermatologist, he underwent an intradermal reaction test (IDR) with application of leishmanin to screen for leishmaniasis, with negative results. Subsequently, a surgical curettage was performed to remove a scab from the nasal septum, revealing a perforation of approximately 1cm. Analysis of the biopsy taken from the lesion showed necrotic tissue and chronic inflammation. Culture of the sample showed an abundance of Staphylococcus aureus. During the period 1998-2008, the patient reported constant relapses of the clinical picture with frequent reactivation of the edges of the perforation, crusting and nasal bleeding. In 2011, necrosis was detected and he underwent surgery to remove the scab, which revealed an increase in the perforation.

The biopsy again showed chronic inflammation and the culture showed S. aureus. Screening for tuberculosis and cytomegalovirus indicated by the medical report showed negative results. Subsequently, a new biopsy was ordered to screen for leishmaniasis, suggesting inconclusive or negative results. Subsequently, in a hospital environment, leishmanin application was indicated, revealing inconclusive or negative results. A repeat IDR test was negative. In January 2012, the patient arrived at our laboratory with slides taken from the ENT section of the Hospital Universitario de los Andes after a demonstration of the active lesion in the region of the nasal septum. The slides containing material from the affected area were processed by different methodologies. In addition, a blood sample was collected from the patient by peripheral venous puncture for PCR assays and serological studies by different methods.

Ethical considerations Prior to sampling, the patient was informed of all sample processing, signing the prior informed consent (PIC) and authorising its execution.

RESULTS

Parasitological examination

Amastigote forms of Leishmania sp. were detected on slide smears, stained with 10% Giemsa in phosphate buffer pH 7.2, containing material taken from the nasal septum lesion. In general, the number of parasites observed was low, sometimes detecting up to 2 amastigotes per 1000X microscopic field. Observation was performed under an Axioskop-Zeiss-Germany microscope coupled to a Noticam 480 digital camera interfaced with an HP laptop, and each positive microscopic field was recorded. Morphology of detected amastigotes.

Identification of Leishmania species by PCR assays

In order to identify the species to which the Leishmania amastigotes detected in the parasitological examination described above belong, DNA isolation was performed from the material obtained from the nasal septum lesion. The examined sample arrived at the laboratory spread on slides. DNA extraction was performed using the classical phenol: chloroform: isoamyl alcohol (25:24:1) method. The DNA obtained was processed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays using the multiplex methodology previously developed for neotropical Leishmania species. The multiplex PCR assay yielded positive results for Leishmania braziliensis demonstrated by amplification of a strong 148 bp band from the nasal septum lesion sample as described above. Similar, but fainter band signals were also detected in peripheral blood samples from the patient, processed with the same multiplex PCR assay. PCR assay results on nasal septum and peripheral blood material from the patient.



Serological examination

An aliquot of the patient's serum was collected for conventional serological tests to detect anti-Leishmania antibodies (Ac) using L. braziliensis antigen. These included a direct agglutination test (DAT) and an indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) following previously standardised procedures adapted in our laboratory for this purpose. All tests were negative.

Application of alternative diagnostic test to corroborate Leishmania braziliensis infection

In order to confirm L. braziliensis as the causative agent of the lesion in the case reported, an alternative serological test was applied in Western Blot format, using GPI (Glycosyl-Phosphatidyl-Inositol)-anchored proteins as antigen to the membrane of L. braziliensis promastigotes. These proteins have been successfully tested in our laboratory as specific biochemical markers to identify and differentiate leishmaniasis caused by L. (V.) braziliensis, following previously described methodology. Application of the test revealed a band of approximately 50kDa specific for L. braziliensis, which is not detected in sera from individuals infected by L. (L.) mexicana or L. (L.) amazonensis. (L.) amazonensis, confirming the identity revealed by the PCR assay. Likewise, this reaction allows asserting that the lesion presented by the case studied is parasitologically and immunologically active, since in treated or cured cases the reaction is negative.
