A 21 year old male, who was involuntarily admitted to the psychiatric hospitalisation unit after presenting with the first psychotic episode due to cannabis consumption.

According to the father, a progressive abandonment of activities (work, leisure) and affective relationships (friendships) is observed, with the patient finding himself in a situation of isolation, inactivity and apathy in the last 6 months.

Likewise, behavioural alterations have increased, with heteroaggressiveness at home and psychotic symptoms; delusions of harm, centred on the family environment. As well as the presence of auditory hallucinations.



EVALUATION
HEALTH PERCEPTION/MAINTENANCE PATTERN

Neglected physical appearance.

No awareness of illness.

Toxic habits: Cannabis smoker since the age of 15, reaching quantities of about 8 joints a day. Intranasal cocaine user since the age of 18, sporadically (recreational use at weekends).

No known allergies

NUTRITIONAL/METABOLIC PATTERN:

Weight: 60 kg Height: 1"75m BMI: 19"5 (Normopeso).

Inadequate nutrition due to delusions of harm in the family environment (ideas of poisoning).

Occasional vomiting, coinciding with delirious activity (verbalised by the patient).

Significant weight loss in recent months.

ELIMINATION/EXCHANGE PATTERN

Mixed continent. Adequate bowel rhythm: every 3 days.

No use of laxatives

ACTIVITY/EXERCISE PATTERN

Self-care: needs supervision for toileting/hygiene although able to perform tasks without assistance.

Leisure activities: verbalises anhedonia. Shows no interest in any activity.

Mobility: slowed pace.

SLEEP - REST PATTERN

Sleeping hours: 9 hours. Sleep pattern currently preserved, requiring occasional hypnotic medication.

Other breaks: 1 hour nap daily.

COGNITIVE-PERCEPTUAL PATTERN

Conscious and oriented in all three spheres. Alert; uncooperative

Thought content: delusions of harm.

Auditory hallucinatory phenomena and delusional interpretations of harm are observed.

Language poor in content, verbalising feelings of anhedonia, as well as abulia.

Slowed course of thought; a delusional ideation of harm is observed, as well as self-referential experiences and auditory hallucinations with emotional and behavioural repercussions (irritability, heteroaggressiveness, isolation, withdrawal from activities and social interaction).

SELF-PERCEPTION - SELF-CONCEPT PATTERN

Emotional reactivity: apathy, abulia.

No ideas of self-harm or death.

ROLE PATTERN - RELATIONSHIPS

Lives with his father and siblings in the family home. He is the eldest of three siblings. Conflict in family relationships, due to the ideas of harm and heteroaggressiveness that he presents.

At an academic level, he finished primary school.

Currently unemployed. Previously worked in different jobs in parcel delivery companies.

SEXUALITY - REPRODUCTION PATTERN

Currently without a partner.

Previously risky behaviour: several sexual partners at the same time. No use of STD protection.

COPING PATTERN - STRESS TOLERANCE

Stress trigger: delusional thoughts/ideas and auditory hallucinations.

Does not adopt coping strategies due to inability to cope effectively. Has difficulty with problem solving and few coping strategies to deal with stressful situations.

VALUES/BELIEFS PATTERN

No alterations in this pattern
