Clinical history. Anamnesis
63-year-old woman with the following personal history: hypertension, rectal neoplasia treated with surgery, hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism and radiotherapy (complete remission), lymphoedema secondary to radiotherapy, McLeod's syndrome (peripheral neuropathy, cardiomyopathy, haemolytic anaemia with acanthosis and respiratory insufficiency) and venous insufficiency. Usual treatment: enalapril, levothyroxine, rocaltrol and mastical D. Admitted to Hospital Axarquía for asthenia and progressive oedema in both lower limbs, of 1 month's evolution. In the last 2 weeks, acute gastroenteritis (treated with ciprofloxacin) and in the last few days, erythematous lesions with increased temperature in the distal third of the right lower limb, suggestive of cellulitis. Occasionally, urinary incontinence, choluria and frothy urine, but she denies voiding syndrome. After being treated with furosemide and ceftriaxone i.v., peripheral oedema decreased but ascites increased. After this, an abdominal CT scan with contrast was performed and after 2 days, there was a further increase in oedema, oligoanuria and deterioration of renal function (Creatinine 1.6 mg/dl). For this reason she was transferred to the HRU Carlos Haya to complete the study.

Physical examination
BP: 116/70. Afebrile. Good general condition, conscious and oriented, eupneic at rest, well hydrated and perfused. Pulmonary auscultation showed crackles in the right base and hypoventilation in the left base. Abdomen: hepatomegaly, wall oedema in declivity and hypogastrium and ascites. Right lower limb: lymphoedema up to the thigh, with warm erythematous plaques in the pretibial area (suggestive of cellulitis). Left lower limb: oedema up to the thigh with no signs of DVT.

Complementary tests
Blood count: normal except for ESR 70 mm. Coagulation: normal. Biochemistry: Creatinine 1.24, cholesterol 226 (LDL 165), AST 110, ALT 39, FA 423, GGT 433, bilirubin normal. LDH 270, Calcium 6.8, phosphorus 3.9, total protein 4.1, albumin 2.3, sodium, potassium, chloride and CRP normal. Sediment with isolated urine: 50 red blood cells/field, protein 500mg/dl. Proteinogram: protein 4.2, albumin 2, beta globulin 0.4, gamma globulin 0.5, no monoclonal component observed. IgA 72, IgM 176, IgG 415. Ferritin 79, thyroid profile normal, anti-TPO and TSI negative, ANA, antiDNA and ANCAs negative as well as the rest of autoimmunity. Complement normal. HAV, HBV, HCV and HIV serology negative. CEA 5.9. 24h urine: volume 2400, proteins: 3538 mg, Na 109, K 52 and Calcium 72. Chest X-ray: loss of volume in left hemithorax which has increased with respect to previous X-ray. Abdominal ultrasound: left pleural effusion. Simple cyst in the left hepatic lobe. Slightly decreased kidney size with small parapelvic cysts already known previously. Moderate amount of fluid in the perihepatic, perisplenic and pelvic areas.
Thoracoabdominal CT scan: gross calcifications in the thyroid gland. Mild-moderate pericardial effusion. Bilateral effusion of left predominance. Decreased size of the left pulmonary artery. Volume loss in left hemithorax without central obstructive cause. Multiple varicoid and cystic bronchiectasis, predominantly in the left lower lobe. Lesion suggestive of cyst in left hepatic lobe. Perihepatic and perisplenic fluid. Kidneys with increased attenuation. Tracheal diverticulum in the right posterolateral wall. Echocardiogram: severe left ventricular hypertrophy, with borderline systolic dysfunction and diastolic dysfunction. Mild pericardial effusion surrounding the left atrium.

Differential diagnosis
It is a nephrotic syndrome with impaired renal function (without previous nephropathy), in the context of radiological study with contrast. With all these data, the following diagnostic options are considered on admission: Glomerular disease:
- Minimal changes or lipoid nephrosis: usually more frequent in children between 2 and 10 years of age. So it is unlikely.
- Focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis: more frequent in adolescents.
- Membranous nephropathy or membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis: <1% of cases.
Within this group it is the most compatible with our case.
Systemic disease: SLE, viral infections (HIV, hepatitis B and C), bacterial infections (streptococcal tonsillitis, etc.), vasculitis, multiple myeloma, amyloidosis, etc. These entities are the most compatible with the picture, but have already been ruled out with blood tests, except for multiple myeloma and amyloidosis. Therefore, further complementary tests should be carried out to confirm or rule out these last two processes.

Complementary tests
Renal biopsy: acellular nodular glomeruli with an impression of amyloidosis. The area of AA amyloid deposition stained brown by immunohistochemistry coincides with that of Kappa light chain deposition. In principle, this seems somewhat contradictory, as the two types of amyloid cannot be stained at the same time. The test is repeated, with the same results. Bone marrow biopsy: Myelogram: marrow with good clumps, cellularity, quite fat in some of the clumps. Presence of all populations in their various mature forms with plasma in 7% of the cellular total, of mature morphology and without the presence of intermediate lymphoid elements. J.C: haematopoietic marrow. Flow cytometry: 3% of plasma cells with abnormal phenotype, typical of myelomatous plasma cells, together with 0.2% of plasma cells with normal phenotype.

Final diagnosis
Primary amyloidosis with possible coexistence of AA amyloid (cardiac, renal, digestive and neuropathic infiltration).

Evolution
On admission, an ultrasound-guided renal biopsy was performed, which revealed AA amyloid deposits, as well as positive IF for Kappa chains. Laboratory tests showed: nephrotic proteinuria, presence of kappa light chains in urine. In blood, absence of monoclonal peak, but presence of kappa light chains and altered ratio. Global hypogammaglobulinaemia, with normal complements. Significant dissociated cholestasis pattern, severe increase in GGT and LDH. Based on these data, the haematology department was consulted and carried out a flow cytometry test, which reported the presence of 3% of plasma cells with an abnormal kappa phenotype. Finally, it was concluded that it was primary amyloidosis, with the possible coexistence of AA amyloid. Treatment was started with cyclophosphamide and steroids as indicated by the haematology department, with further check-ups in the outpatient haematology and nephrology departments.
