We present the case of a 74-year-old Caucasian woman, without CVRF, toxic habits or allergies, with only history of bladder neoplasia in situ operated by TUR, and under study since 2012 for thickening of the right ureter due to a possible tumour aetiology (cytology repeatedly negative). She came to the emergency department for low back pain that had been evolving for weeks and was difficult to control despite opiates, with no neurological symptoms. On examination, contraction and sphincter control as well as rectal sensitivity were preserved; at the global motor level 5/5 without loss of strength in both extremities; global sensitivity remained intact; and the cutaneous-plantar flexor reflexes, and the patellar and Achilles osteotendinous reflexes were also intact. Initially, the haemogram showed Hb 11.8 g/dl, without leukocytosis or platelet alteration; and the biochemistry showed C-reactive protein (CRP) 60.9 mg/l and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 523U/l. It was decided to admit the patient for study and treatment of pain.

Differential diagnosis
Among the differential diagnoses, diseases with inflammatory features of rickets, such as spondyloarthropathies and neoplasms (mainly metastases of pulmonary, bladder and colorectal primaries) should be taken into account. As for the possible tumoural origin, no tumour was found in the CT scans previously performed at another level that could suggest a metastatic origin, and bladder neoplasia in situ was never confirmed. Likewise, the fact that in metastases it is common to find an increase in alkaline phosphatase and hypercalcaemia and that our patient's blood tests did not show these alterations, would rule out a tumour diagnosis.

Another differential diagnosis would be pyogenic infections, the incidence of which is higher than that of tuberculosis, with Staphylococcus aureus being the most frequent causative agent, and to a lesser extent, gram-negative bacilli.

On the other hand, brucellar spondylitis should be ruled out since, after sacroiliitis, it is the most frequent osteoarticular location. Likewise, although very rare, fungal aetiology (Candida albicans) should also be assessed, although this is usually found in immunosuppressed patients undergoing broad-spectrum antibiotherapy and in parenteral drug users, which was not the case in our patient. Finally, multiple myeloma was ruled out in this patient due to the absence of a monoclonal component in the proteinogram (<1% of non-producing multiple myelomas).

Evolution
The patient was admitted for further investigation and a CT scan revealed findings compatible with subacute spondylodiscitis with involvement of the L2-L3 vertebral bodies; less likely metastatic involvement; the possibility of tuberculosis was assessed according to the clinical manifestations and aetiology. A bone scan was also requested, showing hyperfixation at this level, with a subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spine showing findings compatible with an infectious inflammatory process of the L2-L3 disc with the formation of a small prevertebral abscess and another dorsal abscess (approximately 1cm) and evidence of osteomyelitis of the L2-L3 bodies.
Laboratory tests showed a haemogram with Hb 10.7g/dl, ESR 89 mm/h, no leukocytes or platelet abnormalities; in coagulation, fibrinogen 518 mg/dl; biochemistry CRP 75.9 mg/l, with normal ions, normal renal function; normal bilirubin, GOT, GPT, gamma-GT and alkaline phosphatase; albumin 3.4; and tumour markers without alterations. Urinalysis showed intense pyuria (1,219 leucocytes/mcl), with negative urine cultures. Mantoux test and Brucella serology were negative, as was a chest X-ray with no significant findings. A CT-guided biopsy was necessary, with negative bacterial cultures and negative smears, at the expense of the culture result in Lowënstein's medium.
In the urological tomography (Uro-CT), there were findings of progression of the lesions in the renal pelvis and right ureter where associated inflammatory changes and right renal cortical atrophy secondary to obstructive lesion at the level of the right ureteral meatus could be seen. In addition to the persistence of the clinical manifestations, acute phase reactants (APR) increased, and symptoms related to radicular compromise (obliteration of foramina at L3 level), so it was decided to start empirical antibiotherapy with Ceftriaxone, Cloxacillin and Rifampicin. The initial evolution was favourable, with a decrease in AFR, but after the first week of treatment, these stabilised and the improvement stopped. A bone biopsy result was obtained, which was reported as inflammatory, showing some Langhans cells. With the suspicion of tuberculous origin, given the lack of complete clinical response, and that of radicular involvement, decompression and surgical release of the lumbar roots was required, with new samples taken for microbiology. After the operation, tuberculostatic treatment was started with Isoniazid, Rifampicin, Pyrazinamide and Levofloxacin. The patient recovered function, ambulation and the disappearance of neuropathic pain, and was discharged with empirical tuberculostatic and anti-staphylococcal treatment. On examination, the results of the Lowenstein test were received, where M. tuberculosis had grown, confirming the diagnosis of suspected L2-L3 spondylodiscitis due to M. tuberculosis.

Final diagnosis
Spondylodiscitis L2-L3 due to M. tuberculosis. Urogenital tuberculosis.
