Anamnesis
70-year-old male:
" No known drug allergies.
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia.
"Hyperuricaemia.
"Diagnosed with hepatitis C virus genotype 1 in 2004, receiving treatment with sofosbuvir and daclatasvir, with undetectable viral load after treatment.
"Usual treatment: lansoprazole, tamsulosin, allopurinol.

ONCOLOGICAL HISTORY

Oncological history
In March 2014, the patient came to the dermatology department with a nodular lesion of 2.5 cm in diameter on the posterior aspect of the left arm that had been growing progressively for 4 months. At first he was asymptomatic and the lesion was initially skin-coloured, later turning purplish.
The patient was treated with surgery with the following anatomopathological result after resection of the lesion: cutaneous Merkel carcinoma, of nodular morphology infiltrating 1.8 cm in depth reaching subcutaneous adipose tissue. It is less than 1 mm from the deep surgical edge. The rest of the edges are free. Images of vascular and/or lymphatic invasion are observed.
A selective sentinel lymph node biopsy was performed, which was positive for tumour cells, so it was taken to a tumour committee to consider lymphadenectomy and enlargement of surgical margins.
In May 2014, a standard left axillary lymphadenectomy was performed with negative pathology for the 10 resected nodes.
Subsequently, she received radiotherapy treatment from 2 June to 5 September with a dose of 60 Gy, presenting grade 3 epithelitis as toxicity, and was subsequently followed up by medical oncology consultations.

Current disease
During follow-up in medical oncology consultations, a control CT scan of the thorax-abdomen-pelvis was performed in September 2015, showing a mass in the pancreatic region with positive AP for metastasis of Merkel carcinoma, based on biopsy by means of echoendoscopy.

Physical examination
"Conscious and oriented. Eupneic at rest. Oral mucosa without alterations. ECOG 0.
"AC: rhythmic without murmurs. AP: VCM without superimposed noises. Abdomen: RHA+, soft, depressible, without signs of peritoneal irritation. No skin lesions on upper or lower limbs.
"Weight: 80 kg.

Complementary tests
Complete blood count: no abnormalities.

Diagnosis
Merkel cell carcinoma with pancreatic recurrence.

Treatment
With the diagnosis of Merkel cell carcinoma with pancreatic recurrence, the patient started treatment with double platinum chemotherapy: carboplatin-taxol every 21 days. Complications were grade I neutropenia and grade I mucositis.

Evolution
He received a total of 6 cycles of carboplatin-taxol, initially obtaining a response to the treatment and a decrease in the pancreatic mass in the control imaging tests.
Later, in the CT scan of May 2016, he showed signs of progression of his underlying pathology, visualising a left adrenal nodule together with the previous residual pancreatic mass.
At that time, due to the progression of the disease, a second line of treatment with cisplatin-etoposide was considered, receiving a single cycle due to poor tolerance, requiring hospital admission due to grade III febrile neutropenia and grade III thrombopenia.
Therapeutic options were discussed with the patient. At that time, a phase II trial of pembrolizumab for Merkel cell carcinoma was described in the literature. Based on this information, it was decided to use pembrolizumab as monotherapy at a dose of 2 mg/kg every 3 weeks off label.
She received the first cycle in July 2016, with symptomatic improvement in pain after 10 days. A follow-up CT scan was performed in September, after the third course of treatment, showing a marked improvement compared to the previous one, with practical resolution of the left retroperitoneal mass and the left adrenal nodule.
The patient continued to receive a course of pembrolizumab every 21 days, presenting complications in July 2017 with erythematous, rounded lesions with a whitish background on the front of both legs and right arm, compatible with psoriasis, and was assessed by the Dermatology Department.
A control PET CT scan was performed in October of that year, and was reported as an absence of macroscopic malignant disease from the metabolic point of view.
In the last thoracoabdominal-pelvic CT scan performed in February 2018, no changes were observed with respect to the previous one.
Currently, the patient continues to receive treatment with pembrolizumab, having recently received his 29th cycle. He is asymptomatic, in good general condition and has a sustained major response to his tumour pathology.
