Anamnesis
A 73-year-old man with the only relevant history of cirrhosis due to hepatitis C virus under follow-up by the Digestive Department, with good liver function (Child-Turcotte-Pugh class A). HCC was diagnosed at one of the check-ups in May 2008. He was initially managed by the Digestive Department with radiofrequency (RF) (on 2 occasions), obtaining complete remission of the neoplastic lesion. In June/2011 a new nodule appeared in a different hepatic segment to the one affected in 2008. It was treated with percutaneous ethanol injection. During his follow-up, a CT scan in 2012 revealed the appearance of new nodules in several liver segments (multicentric HCC, stage B of the Barcelona Clinical Liver Cancer [BCLC] scale). It was decided to treat with TACE or transarterial chemoembolisation. One year later, in June/2013, a control CT scan and later a liver MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) confirmed recurrence with the appearance of 4 nodules (involvement of several liver segments) and peritoneal thickening.

Physical examination
The patient was transferred to medical oncology. On initial evaluation, the patient presented with an unremarkable physical examination, except for a pain on palpation in the right hypochondrium (RCH). Liver function was also normal except for mild thrombopenia (106,000/mm3). Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was 67.3 ng/ml.

Complementary tests
Medical oncology management Treatment with sorafenib 400 mg/2 times a day was started. Fifteen days after starting sorafenib, the patient developed palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia grade 3 (CTCAE V.4.0 G3), G2 diarrhoea and G2 asthenia. The dose was reduced to 400 mg/day and then to 400 mg/48 h due to persistent G2 toxicity. Finally, it was decided to definitively discontinue sorafenib due to poor tolerance after 1 year of treatment with several dose adjustments. In August 2013, biweekly gemcitabine was started. At the 2nd cycle, he developed G3 febrile neutropenia requiring hospital admission.
At hospital discharge, the patient presented with severe deterioration in functional status (performance status: ECOG 2-3), residual asthenia and occasional febrile fever with no recognisable infectious cause. At this time, the patient had sustained thrombopenia (52,000/mm3). A re-evaluation MRI was performed showing stabilisation of the disease. In view of the poor tolerance and the deterioration of the patient due to the toxicity of previous therapies, it was decided not to resume chemotherapy treatment and to observe the patient through clinical check-ups and imaging tests.
Follow-up from September 2013 to April 2017
During the re-evaluations with CT and MRI, periods of minimal disease progression alternating with periods of stabilisation were maintained during this time. The patient recovered his PS (ECOG 1) and, as the most relevant clinical alterations, he presented: mild baseline HCD pain controlled with 1st step analgesia, mild thrombopenia and occasional febrile fever (studied on several occasions, with the main infectious causes ruled out) which was interpreted as tumour-related. Due to the patient's fragility in relation to poor tolerance to previous treatments and the evidence of a slow and paucisymptomatic evolution of the disease, it was decided to avoid active treatment and to maintain follow-up every 3 months.

Diagnosis
Progression and emergence of immunotherapy in the treatment of HCC
On review in April/2017, progression was determined with increase of pre-existing lesions in several hepatic lobes, involvement of the abdominal wall in HCD with tumour nodules, elevation of AFP (123 ng/ml) and increase of his baseline pain.

Treatment
It was decided to start treatment with nivolumab at a dose of 3 mg/kg/day every 2 weeks. Treatment with IT for approximately 13 months was well tolerated and the toxicity observed in the patient was mainly G1 asthenia and G1 rash. The best response during this period was stabilisation of the disease. In May 2018, further progression was confirmed and nivolumab was discontinued. At this point, given the exhaustion of therapeutic tools for this scenario, retreatment with sorafenib was attempted (at very low doses: 200 mg/day every 48 h) but, even so, it was not tolerated.

Evolution
In July of the same year, regorafenib was started at a dose of 80 mg/day for 21 days with cycles every 28 days. However, tolerance to this drug was also poor, with G3 skin reaction, G3 asthenia and elevated transaminases > 4 times the upper limit of normal (4 x LSN).
Hospital admission and immediate discontinuation of regorafenib was decided. Finally, the patient died at the end of August 2018 as a consequence of new tumour progression and irrecoverable liver failure.
