A 75-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with a referral for MAP. Ten days earlier she had started with pain and increased volume in the right parotid region. An ultrasound was performed and showed dilatation of the ducts and lithiasis inside the ducts. 48 hours later, she presented a worsening and oral ATB was prescribed without improvement and she was referred to the emergency department.

Physical examination showed: Right cervical bulge in area II-III of 6cm under tension. The overlying skin was erythematous and warm, with subcutaneous nodules of whitish content (impression of purulent material close to fistulisation). In the oral cavity and oropharynx: no significant alterations were observed, together with fibrolaryngoscopy with no significant alterations. In view of this examination, an urgent cervical CT scan was performed, which revealed a hypodense collection with thickened, irregular and hyperemic walls in the right lateral cervical space, located lateral to the angle of the mandible and superficial to the carotid and sternocleidomastoid spaces, measuring approximately 40 x 28 x 50 mm. It is associated with thickening of the skin and superficial fascial planes, as well as involvement of the fat of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, compatible with locoregional inflammatory changes. It is accompanied by ipsilateral laterocervical nodes with a reactive appearance in stations IIA and IIb. The findings described are compatible with a brachial cyst of the second arch complicated by an inflammatory-infectious process, without being able to rule out an underlying malignant process. Given this diagnosis, it was decided to admit the patient to hospital for intravenous ATB treatment and monitoring of the cervical collection.

At the beginning of admission, the collection began to fistulise and drain spontaneously, which was helped by drainage under local anaesthesia with abundant purulent material coming out, which was sent to microbiology. The microbiology results showed growth of Eikenella corrodens sensitive to penicillin, cefotaxime, vancomycin, levofloxacin and clindamycin, among other ATBs. The patient had been on ceftriaxone and vancomycin since admission. She progressed favourably and was discharged from hospital 8 days after admission. Subsequently, she attended several outpatient treatments and one month after discharge, in consultations, a complete improvement was observed with a completely healed drainage wound. A follow-up ultrasound was requested and performed 2 months after admission, where no significant alterations were visualised.
