Anamnesis
In the anamnesis carried out on the eighth day, made difficult by language alteration, the patient manifested pain in the right iliac wing and ipsilateral limb, and decreased mobility in the lower limbs, with a tendency to somnolence. The previous day she had required bladder catheterisation for acute urinary retention.
The joint anamnesis with the relatives revealed apathy and the presence of impoverished language. She categorically denies having eaten, in the previous days or weeks, unprocessed dairy products and other suspicious foods. There are no relatives with a similar clinical picture.

Physical examination
Temperature 36.2oC, blood pressure 130 mm Hg systolic and 80 mm Hg systolic, heart rate 75 bpm, respiratory rate 14 breaths per minute, room air saturation 97%. The neurological examination on the eighth day revealed fluctuations in attention and inability to process successive orders. He also had mixed dysphasia with altered fluency, abundant paraphasia and naming difficulties. The motor examination revealed paresis of the left lower limb with muscle balance of two out of five and an increase in the ipsilateral reflexogenic area. In the examination performed four days later, a low level of consciousness was observed with a Glasgow Glasgow score of 13 out of 15, nuchal rigidity and the presence of meningeal signs.

Complementary tests
No significant alterations were observed in the tests on admission or during the first days on the ward. As part of the outpatient assessment of the patient, a complete spinal MRI scan was performed on the third day, which showed metastasis in several bodies, ruling out spinal cord involvement. Differential blood cultures taken during the fever peak were negative.
On the eighth day, coinciding with the onset of clinical deterioration, the patient was referred to the neurology department and a cranial CT scan was performed, showing dubious meningeal enhancement in the tentorium and basal cisterns. In view of the suspicion of meningeal carcinomatosis vs. metabolic encephalopathy, and to rule out convulsive status, an urgent electroencephalogram was performed, which showed slow waves indicative of moderate encephalopathy.
In view of the above findings and the persistence of neurological deterioration, an urgent brain MRI was performed on the tenth day, which ruled out meningeal carcinomatosis, the presence of other lesions and indirect signs of cranial hypertension, so a lumbar puncture was performed on suspicion of meningitis. Laboratory examination of cerebrospinal fluid showed clear fluid, with glucose 23 mg/dl, total protein 198.2 mg/dl ADA < 8 U/l. Initial visualisation of Gram-positive bacilli with the presence of ampicillin-sensitive Listeria monocytogenes several days later.

Diagnosis
"Acute community-acquired meningitis due to ampicillin-sensitive Listeria monocytogenes.
"Right lower limb paresis, mixed dysphasia and apraxia secondary to acute meningitis.
"Poor pain control related to metastatic bone involvement.
"Stage IV adenocarcinoma of sigma.

Treatment
Given the presence of self-limited and asymptomatic febrile syndrome on the fourth day of admission, and taking into account the observation of the patient on the ward, it was decided not to start antibiotic treatment at that time. However, given the presence of clinical deterioration on day eight and the suspicion of subacute meningitis, empirical antibiotic therapy was started with ceftriaxone 2 g every 12 hours, vancomycin 1 g every 8 hours and ampicillin 4 g every 4 hours associated with dexamethasone 4 mg every 12 hours. Subsequently, targeted treatment with the Gram stain result was performed using ampicillin associated with intravenous gentamicin for 7 days, with progressive reduction of corticosteroids until discontinuation. Later, gentamicin was replaced by trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole for 10 days, maintaining ampicillin, before switching to oral antibiotic treatment with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole monotherapy. Finally, taking into account the toxicity profile, the patient was discharged on ampicillin monotherapy until at least 8 weeks of treatment. Progressive adjustment of the third step analgesia associated with adjuvants was also carried out during her admission to the ward.

Evolution
During admission, the patient was assessed jointly by the Medical Oncology, Radiation Oncology, Psycho-Oncology, Neurology, the Infectious Diseases Unit, Nutrition, Palliative Care, Digestive, General Surgery and Rehabilitation teams to address the meningitis in a multidisciplinary manner, pain secondary to bone metastases, cancer-associated malnutrition and decreased intake due to low level of consciousness, loss of functional capacity and low reactive mood as well as other complications occurring during admission.
Regarding meningitis, there was an improvement in the level of consciousness ad integrum after four days of targeted antibiotic treatment, with complete disappearance of meningeal signs and nuchal rigidity on the sixth day of antibiotic therapy. A new brain MRI was performed on the thirtieth day of admission, which ruled out the presence of brain abscesses indicating the need for prolonged treatment.
With regard to pain treatment, analgesic radiotherapy was performed on the lesion located in the right iliac wing, reducing the dose of morphine for pain control and thus improving the level of consciousness and the tendency to drowsiness, symptoms that conditioned the patient's quality of life.
As complications during admission, the patient presented a self-limited lower gastrointestinal haemorrhage, probably secondary to intestinal ischaemia of haemodynamic origin, which was managed conservatively after evaluation by the gastrointestinal and general surgery departments. She also developed haematological toxicity secondary to prolonged treatment with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole with the presence of bicytopenia (G2 anaemia and G1 leukopenia) that forced a change of treatment to oral ampicillin until at least 8 weeks of treatment.
The patient was discharged after 40 days of hospitalisation, maintaining treatment with oral ampicillin. An appointment was made with the oncology department to evaluate the withdrawal of antibiotic therapy and to continue oncological treatment.
