PATIENT HISTORY
28 YEAR OLD MALE PATIENT, systemically healthy, smoker of 5 cigarettes a day, who came to the clinic referred by his orthodontist. He has fixed orthodontic appliances. Oral respirator, in the oral anamnesis a large accumulation of bacterial plaque, gingival inflammation, bleeding and food impaction is detected. She does not perform correct oral hygiene and does not refer to the use of interproximal hygiene techniques. In terms of dental history, there are no absences, caries or previous restorations. There are numerous malpositions, mainly located in the lower arch.

STEP 1
On the first visit, marginal bone loss is detected in the bitewing X-rays and, therefore, a possible patient with periodontitis is suspected. A complete periodontal study and step 2 is carried out.

STEP 2
If no local factors are detected and there is attachment loss > 1 mm in more than one non-adjacent tooth (probing depths are > 4 mm in interproximal), periodontitis is confirmed and proceed to step 3 to determine the stage and grade.

STEP 3A
At this point, we establish the extent. In this case, the attachment loss affects more than 30 % of the teeth (pocket depths > 4 mm in more than 30 %), therefore, it would be a generalised periodontitis.

STEP 3B
Next, we would distinguish whether it would be stage I-II or III-IV. Starting with severity, the patient has attachment loss < 5 mm and radiographically detectable bone loss in the first third of the root, type I furcations and no missing teeth, therefore, he/she is a stage I or II patient.

STEP 3C
To distinguish whether it is stage I or II, we look at the percentage of bone loss, which in this case is < 15 %, and at the attachment loss which is 1-2 mm. Therefore, the patient could be diagnosed with stage I generalised periodontitis.

STEP 4
In the absence of the patient's previous records, the bone loss is estimated according to age to determine the grade. The bone loss could be estimated at 8% (with periapical radiography of the most affected tooth), which in a 28 year old patient would give a result of 0.28, which would result in a grade A. But in this case, the grade would be modified by smoking as he is a smoker of 5 cigarettes and, therefore, would become grade B.

TREATMENT
AFTER A SYSTEMIC ADVICE PHASE for smoking cessation (Fargeström test), the basic anti-inflammatory phase was carried out, consisting of oral hygiene instructions and scaling and root planing by quadrants in two sessions, together with the coadjuvant use of chlorhexidine 0.12%, twice a day for 15 days. In addition, during this phase, extractions of the wisdom teeth were carried out for orthodontic indications.
