Anamnesis
After the third cycle, he was admitted for grade 3 diarrhoea and non-neutropenic fever on day +6 secondary to left basal pneumonia, isolating Streptococcus mitis group in blood cultures in all the flasks extracted.
During his stay on the ward, he was re-evaluated by CT scan showing a partial response at the hepatic level, so it was decided, together with General Surgery, to request hepatic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in order to plan surgery to remove the lesions.
After being discharged at the end of August, he required early readmission, with clinical manifestations consisting of dyspnoea at rest and evidence of biventricular heart failure.

Physical examination
Physical examination revealed a diastolic murmur in the aortic focus and a third heart tone, as well as bilateral crackles that made cardiac auscultation quite difficult and significant bilateral oedema with fovea.

Complementary tests
A transthoracic echocardiogram was requested which documented aortic valve endocarditis leading to severe aortic insufficiency with secondary acute pulmonary oedema.

Diagnosis
Infective endocarditis on native aortic valve secondary to Streptococcus sanguinis.

Treatment
He was assessed by Cardiovascular Surgery and underwent urgent aortic valve replacement in September 2016. In the culture of the valve lesion, Streptococcus sanguinis was isolated, and appropriate antibiotic treatment was administered.

Evolution
As complications during the postoperative period, he presented with radicular cystitis assessed by the Urology Department, requiring transfusions of blood products and continuous bladder lavage. Urine cytology and cystoscopy were performed with no evidence of malignancy or lesions.
He was discharged and, following a decision by the multidisciplinary committee, a resection of segment II and VIII liver metastases was performed in December 2016 without incident. After postoperative recovery and documentation of the absence of systemic disease in body CT, adjuvant treatment with oxaliplatin-capecitabine (XELOX) was completed for 6 cycles, presenting only grade 1 neurotoxicity. Treatment was completed in June 2017 and body CT was requested, and the absence of disease persisted, which is why he is currently under review.
