Anamnesis
A 70-year-old man, with no past history of interest, who in November 2017 was referred to the gastroenterology department for investigation due to anaemia refractory to treatment and dyspepsia of 6 months' evolution.

Physical examination
Examination was unremarkable.

Complementary tests
"CBC: Hb 10.5 g/dl, CEA 31.8 ng/ml, Ca 19.9: 1,319 U/ml.
"Gastroscopy: at the level of the incisura and with an extension of about 3 cm along the lesser curvature, and also on the posterior aspect, an excavated lesion with raised edges and fever on rubbing is identified. The rest is normal. AP: intestinal adenocarcinoma. HER-2 negative.
"CT-CT scan: adenopathic conglomerate at the level of the gastrohepatic ligament measuring about 25 x 40 mm. The rest is normal.
"Echoendoscopy: lesion in lesser curvature affecting 50% of the circumference with loss of definition of all its layers, infiltrating the adjacent fat and extending from 3 cm below the gastro-oesophageal junction to the proximal antrum. Five infiltrative lymphadenopathies are observed.

Diagnosis
Gastric adenocarcinoma. Stage cT4cN2cM0.

Treatment
Given locally advanced gastric adenocarcinoma, neoadjuvant treatment was decided with a FLOT scheme for 4 cycles (FLOT4-AIO study), radical surgery and subsequent adjuvant treatment with another 4 cycles of FLOT.

Evolution
In January 2018, neoadjuvant treatment with FLOT (docetaxel 50 mg/m2, folinic acid 200 mg/m2, oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 and 5-FU 2,600 mg/m2 days 1 every 14 days) was started. Very good tolerance to treatment. G1 nausea and vomiting. After the 4th cycle, the partial response was a decrease in the adenopathic conglomerate at the level of the gastrohepatic ligament, which currently measures 15 x 25 mm.
Given the partial radiological response, total gastrectomy and D2 lymphadenectomy were performed on 21/3/2018. Pathological anatomy showed poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma affecting perigastric tissue reaching the visceral serosa. Poor response to treatment (grade 3 CAP). Lymphovascular and perineural invasion. Free edges. 11 affected nodes out of 16. HER-2 negative. Stage ypT4apN3acM0.
After the operation, she received only 2 cycles of adjuvant FLOT. It was suspended due to poor digestive tolerance and haematological toxicity (last cycle on 20/6/2018).
On review in February 2019, the patient came for consultation with lumbar pain of 15 days' evolution, accompanied by weakness and loss of strength 3/5 in both lower limbs, as well as urinary incontinence. The patient was admitted for further investigation. A CT-CT scan was performed showing retroperitoneal lymph node relapse and pulmonary metastases. Brain and spine MRI showed a pseudonodular morphological alteration in the cauda equina type which, after the administration of intravenous contrast, was intensely enhanced in the leptomeningeal region and nodular morphology with metastatic dissemination. Multiple cerebellar lesions, vernix and right corona radiata were observed in the brain. A lumbar puncture was performed and the cerebrospinal fluid cytology was positive for malignancy.
Treatment was started with high-dose corticosteroids and palliative RT treatment was considered, but the patient progressively worsened neurologically and died on 21/2/2019, 3 weeks after the onset of symptoms.
