Anamnesis
The patient is a 47-year-old male with no medical or surgical history of interest. He does not take any medication. He is a native of London and works as an English teacher. His father died of pulmonary amyloidosis at the age of 74 and his father of renal cancer at the age of 70.
In 2010, she consulted for a progressive increase in abdominal circumference over 12 months of evolution, associated with epigastric pain and a feeling of fullness early after eating. She had lost 15 kilograms of weight in the last 6 months.

Physical examination
Physical examination revealed a Karnosky index of 90%, good general condition and an unremarkable cardiorespiratory auscultation. The most notable finding was a semiology of moderate ascites.

Additional tests
A haemogram, biochemistry and haemostasis were then requested and the only notable findings were elevated lactate dehydrogenase (600 U/L) and creatine protein kinase (280 U/L). Serology for hepatotropic viruses (B and C) and human immunodeficiency virus was also performed, both of which were negative, and ascitic fluid analysis was positive for malignant cellularity.
A thoracic, abdominal and pelvic computed axial tomography (CT-PAT) was performed, showing a large cystic mass covering a large part of the abdomen, as well as a large amount of intraperitoneal fluid suggestive of ascites, in addition to multiple peritoneal implants. Positron emission tomography was completed, showing the known large abdominal mass without metabolic activity.

Diagnosis
Finally, a fine needle biopsy of the lesion was performed and a diagnosis of a spindle cell tumour was made. Immunohistochemistry showed positivity for vimentin, actin, CD-117, CD-34 and in isolation for S-100. Negative for desmin. The cell proliferation index assessed by Ki-67 was 5%. Therefore the immunohistochemical profile suggested a diagnosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST).

Treatment
Due to the large tumour volume, it was decided to start neoadjuvant treatment with imatinib 400 milligrams per day and further evaluation at 2 months for possible surgical salvage. Initial tolerance to imatinib was adequate, he only presented mild eyelid oedema, but the ascites did not subside and required the placement of a permanent peritoneal drain due to the repeated paracentesis required.

Evolution
Two months after treatment, the patient remained with abundant ascitic fluid debit from the drainage. An abdominal CT scan was performed for evaluation, where the large peritoneal mass persisted, with minimal reduction of the cystic component and a decrease in peritoneal involvement, which meant a poor response both clinically and radiologically. With this, the multidisciplinary committee of Digestive Surgery decided to perform an exploratory laparotomy, where the large mass measuring 50x30 centimetres (cm) was observed, occupying the entire abdomen, with its origin in the greater gastric curvature. Radical resection of the mass was performed during the same surgical procedure.
The surgical biopsy showed a high-risk GIST tumour with a maximum diameter of 21 cm.
Necrosis areas were 30% and the cell proliferation index with Ki67 was 3%.
The postoperative follow-up CT-CT scan showed disappearance of the peritoneal mass, but increased intraperitoneal fat density and paracolic droplets in relation to peritoneal carcinomatosis.
Therefore, there was a clear indication for treatment with pseudoadjuvant imatinib, due to the large size, despite the gastric location and the low mitosis rate. Given the poor initial response and persistent disease, we decided to start treatment with imatinib 800 mg.
After surgery and with the initiation of high-dose treatment, the patient experienced a great improvement from a clinical point of view. The ascites and epigastric pain completely disappeared and he started to gain weight progressively. Tolerance to treatment at higher doses was also excellent. The only notable incidence was the appearance of eyelid oedema. From an analytical point of view, the thyroid profile remained stable.
After 16 weeks of treatment, the CT-CT scan showed complete disappearance of peritoneal involvement, with no evidence of disease in the imaging test. We continued treatment with similar tolerance to the previous one. Due to the atypical nature of the picture, we requested mutational status. The results were c-kit mutation negative and PDGFR-A exon 18 mutation positive, the mutation being pD842V.
Currently after 54 weeks of imatinib, she persists without evidence of disease.
