1. Patient's problem
A 52 year old female patient came to the clinic because of swollen gums and dental mobility. She smoked 2 cigarettes/day (in the first 10 years of smoking she smoked 20 cigarettes/day). She was diagnosed and treated for breast cancer 10 years ago. She currently reports controlled hypertension. She takes daily medication with an anti-estrogen (Tamoxifen 20 mg) and a beta-blocker (Atenolol 50 mg). She has received numerous restorative dental treatments and has absent teeth. She has a family history of periodontal disease.

2. Diagnosis
Clinical inspection revealed a thick biotype with erythematous and oedematous gingival margins and generalised recession.
A plaque index (PI) of 83 % and a bleeding index (BI) of 78.67 % were quantified.
Probing depths (PS) of 7-15 mm in the four sextants. On radiographic examination he reported generalised moderate horizontal bone loss with severe vertical bone defects located in several teeth. Microbiological analysis indicated high loads of T. forsythia, F. nucleatum, P. gingivalis and T. denticola. At the dental level, a fractured restoration was noted in 4.5 and a vertical fracture in 2.5, as well as the absence of multiple teeth in posterior sextants.
He reported a posterior bite collapse, bruxism, fremitus type II in 1.2, as well as dental interferences.
He was diagnosed with advanced chronic generalised periodontitis (Stage III generalised, Grade C) and periodontitis associated with endodontic lesion at 1.4 (combined periodontal endodontic lesion). There were clinical and radiographic signs indicating the presence of secondary occlusal trauma.

3. Aim of treatment
In view of the patient's reason for consultation, the main objective was to restore the patient's oral health. Also, a treatment objective was the replacement of missing teeth in order to improve her masticatory function.

4. Modifying factors
The main aetiological factor of periodontitis in this patient is bacterial biofilm.
The time and amount of exposure to smoking can be considered one of the risk factors in the development of periodontal disease. Dental malocclusion and malposition, secondary occlusal trauma and other local factors such as open contacts, root proximity and anatomical concavities are contributing factors to the development of periodontal disease.

5. Prognosis
A prognosis of unreasonable to treat was obtained for 1.7, 1.4, 1.2, 4.8 and 2.5; doubtful for 1.1, 2.3, 2.6, 3.7, 3.1, 3.2 and 4.5; and a good prognosis for the remaining teeth.

6. Treatment plan
6.1 Systemic phase
First of all, the patient was motivated to stop smoking and to monitor her hypertension in coordination with her general practitioner. 6.2 Periodontal hygiene phase
Oral hygiene instructions were given and supragingival hygiene was performed. RAR of the four quadrants was performed, together with administration of Metronidazole 500 mg every 8 hours for seven days starting after the last RAR session. In addition, 0.12 % chlorhexidine rinses were recommended for 15 days. Selective occlusal adjustments were carried out and an upper discharge splint was provided. Root canal treatment was performed on tooth 1.4.

6.3 Revaluation
At periodontal revaluation a PI of 27 % and an IS of 16 % was recorded. A reduction in PS was obtained across the board, with residual periodontal pockets of 4 to 11 mm still present. The patient was re-instructed in oral hygiene habits. Another RAR session was performed before starting the surgical phase.

6.4 Periodontal surgical phase
The planning of the surgical phase was:
- Periodontal regeneration of 1.4, 1.3, 1.2, 1.1 and extraction of 1.7.
- Extraction of 4.8.
- Guided tissue regeneration in 2.3 and 2.4 and alveolar preservation in 2.5.
The periodontogram of the 2nd and 3rd sextants shows pockets of 4 to 8 mm. Papilla and intrasulcular preservation incisions were made vestibular and palatal from 1.1 to 2.6 and distal rectangular to distal wedge of 2.6. A full thickness flap was raised and tooth 2.5 was extracted, removing all granulation tissue in the area. The socket was filled with mineralised allograft and a collagen membrane was placed. Subsequently, the infraosseous defects were filled with enamel matrix-derived proteins in combination with a mineralised allograft. Sutures were made with polytetrafluoroethylene using an internal vertical mattress and single stitches.


- Periodontal regeneration in 3.1 and 3.2.
The teeth were splinted lingually. The periodontogram of the 5th sextant shows periodontal pockets of 4 to 12 mm. The initial surgical approach consisted of a modified papilla preservation, a full thickness vestibular and lingual flap detachment and removal of granulation tissue (Figure 9).
The infrabony defects were filled with a combination of enamel matrix-derived proteins (Emdogain®) and a mineralised allograft. Sutures were made with 6/0 polypropylene with modified internal vertical mattress pads and single stitches.

6.5 Revaluation (II)
At 6 months after the last periodontal regeneration surgery a complete periodontogram was performed, showing stability and clinical improvement of the periodontal tissues. In each of the regenerative surgeries, a reduction in PS was observed at the expense of a remarkable attachment gain, as well as a remarkable radiographic bone filling.

6.6 Rehabilitation phase
The patient was rehabilitated by the placement of dental implants in positions
2.5, 3.6, 4.5 y 4.6.

7. Maintenance
The periodontal risk assessment of the patient indicated a high risk, advising an interval of maintenance visits every 3 months. At two years follow-up, together with regular maintenance, clinical and radiographic stability of the patient's periodontal status can be observed.
