Anamnesis
We present the case of a 61-year-old male patient with a history of benign prostatic hyperplasia being treated with tamsulosin and a former smoker for 8 years (35 pack-year smoking habit). As family history, his mother suffered from tuberculosis in childhood.
He came to the emergency department with dyspnoea of 4 days' duration, which progressively increased until it became minimal effort, together with an isolated febrile peak of 38oC, with no other associated infectious symptoms or symptoms suggestive of heart failure.

Physical examination
Physical examination revealed an obese patient, in acceptable general condition and haemodynamically stable. On speaking, he presented slight tachypnoea, with oxygen saturation of 95% without external contributions. Cardiorespiratory auscultation showed hypophonetic tones and a slight decrease in generalised vesicular murmur. Two lymph nodes were palpated in the neck, one on the right and the other on the left, approximately 2 cm in diameter. The rest of the examination was unremarkable.

Additional tests
Aerosol therapy and oxygen therapy in nasal goggles at 3 litres per minute were prescribed and various complementary tests were requested (laboratory tests, chest X-ray and electrocardiogram), highlighting the elevation of D-dimer (3,880; normal values 0-500 ng/ml) and troponins (29; normal values 1-14 ng/l), with normal pro-BNP (489; normal values for his age < 900 pg/ml); as well as cardiomegaly in the chest X-ray. Given the high suspicion of pulmonary thromboembolism, computerised angiotomography of the chest was requested, which ruled out the presence of embolism, although it showed pericardial effusion of 4 cm maximum thickness and pathological-looking lymphadenopathies of 2 cm in the mediastinal, paratracheal and subcarinal locations.

Diagnosis
Severe pericardial effusion with haemodynamic stability.

Treatment
Pericardiocentesis.

Evolution
Given the severe pericardial effusion, even though the patient was haemodynamically stable, it was decided to admit him to the Coronary Unit for diagnostic and therapeutic pericardiocentesis, which was performed urgently with the extraction of 2200 cc of serohematic fluid, achieving clinical improvement in the patient. A sample was collected for biochemical, cytological and microbiological studies; the biochemistry showed the presence of 1,400,000 red blood cells (normal values < 400 red blood cells) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 1,430 (normal values < 250 U/l). The clinical improvement and haemodynamic stability of the patient allowed his transfer to the hospital ward of Internal Medicine awaiting the results of pericardial fluid. In the following days, the cytology of the fluid showed adenocarcinoma, and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for tuberculosis in the fluid was positive. In this situation, in which both findings have a relevant diagnostic, therapeutic and prognostic implication, a battery of complementary tests are requested that would condition the subsequent diagnostic-therapeutic process.
On the one hand, when adenocarcinoma of unknown primary tumour is suspected, tests such as computed tomography of the neck and abdomen, endoscopy and colonoscopy, immunohistochemistry in pericardial fluid cytology and cervical lymph node biopsy are requested. These tests are not conclusive for the existence of a primary tumour, although the cytology of the cervical lymph node supports the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma, the immunohistochemical study being positive for PANCK, CK7, GATA 3; and negative for CK 20, napsin, CK 5/6, uroplakin, PAX8, HER2, OCT 4, CD45, HmB45; and immunohistochemistry of pericardial fluid negative for TTF1 and CK20; and positive for CK7. These results are not very specific, and although they could point to a pulmonary, salivary, urothelial and mammary origin, they cannot rule out other options; therefore, we assume the diagnosis of CUP with pericardial and lymph node involvement. Given the suspicion of active tuberculosis, pending further study, active oncological treatment is not considered for the time being.
On the other hand, a series of tests were performed with the intention of demonstrating the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in other biological fluids, requesting PCR for tuberculosis and culture of mycobacteria in sputum and urine. The results were positive for tuberculosis PCR in urine and pericardial fluid, the rest of the studies being negative. We therefore assumed the diagnosis of tuberculosis with pericardial involvement and started anti-tuberculosis treatment with rifampicin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, ethambutol and prednisone, with excellent tolerance.
During his admission to the Internal Medicine ward, the patient evolved favourably, tolerating decubitus, remaining eupneic when speaking, with an oxygen saturation of 97% without external contributions; therefore, once the necessary studies had been carried out and anti-tuberculosis treatment started, it was decided to discharge him home and follow him up in the outpatient Infectious Diseases and Medical Oncology departments. After two months of active anti-tuberculosis treatment, he was reviewed in the Infectious Diseases department and started maintenance treatment with rifampicin and isoniazid. Oncology proposed the patient for inclusion in the CUPISCO MX39795 clinical trial, the aim of which is to evaluate whether patients with CUP benefit from targeted treatment.
