Anamnesis
A 53-year-old male patient whose only history of interest was a traumatic brain injury (TBI) with a subdural haematoma (SDH) at the level of the cerebral sickle, mild vascular encephalopathy and anosmia. He was not taking any chronic medication.
The patient came to the emergency department with asthenia, a loss of 10 kilograms (kg) in two months and oppressive and intense abdominal pain at the epigastric level that worsened with ingestion. Due to these symptoms, the patient was admitted to Internal Medicine for further investigation. The tests performed showed AF (alkaline phosphatase): 516, GGT (Gamma glutamyl transferase): 282, Ca (carbohydrate antigen) 19.9: 3800 with the rest of the determinations being normal. Abdominal ultrasound showed hepatomegaly with multiple lesions, which were later confirmed by computerised tomography (CT), showing multiple hepatic lesions and a larger lesion measuring 10 cm. A colonoscopy was performed to rule out primary tumour pathology at this level, which was normal. Gross needle biopsy (GAB) of the liver lesion showed adenocarcinoma of probable pancreato-biliary origin with positive EMA, positive cytokeratin 17 and 19 and all other markers negative. With this diagnosis he was referred to Medical Oncology for assessment.
The day before the medical oncology consultation, the patient came to the emergency department with a picture of confusion that had been present for 12 hours since waking up. The family reports that the patient does not seem to understand what is said to him and does not express words correctly. He was assessed by the on-call oncologist who corroborated the confusional picture and global aphasia and decided to admit the patient to Medical Oncology for study.

Physical examination
ECOG Scale (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group): 3. Karnofsky Scale: 60. Disorientated in the three spheres. Language poorly comprehensible. Unresponsive to verbal commands. Discrete deviation of gaze to the left. Difficult exploration of cranial nerves due to lack of cooperation. Good mobility of upper and lower limbs. The abdomen was soft and depressible with hepatomegaly. The rest of the examination was unremarkable.

Complementary tests
CBC: Glucose: 336, FA: 346, CRP (C Reactive Protein): 26.04, Hb: 9.3, Leukocytes: 34330, Neutrophils: 29760. All other tests were normal. Serology: VDRL, IgG (Immunoglobulin G) Borrelia burgdoferi, HSV (Herpes Simplex Virus), VZV (Varicella Zoster Virus) and Enterovirus: Negative.
Simple brain CT scan: No findings of acute brain pathology.
Cerebral MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging): No malignant lesions were observed. Dural fistula of the right sigmoid sinus with retrograde flow and venous congestion of the temporo-parietal cortical veins and deep system.
CT TAP (Thorax abdomen pelvis): Compared with the previous CT scan, larger liver lesions were observed. No pathological lesions were observed at other levels.
Lumbar puncture: Biochemistry: CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) clear and transparent. Leukocytes 22/field (77% PMN), Red cells 0, Glucose 92, Proteins 25.4. Autoinuminance: Anti-neuronal antibodies IFI (indirect immunofluorescence) (Amphiphysin, Ma2/Ta, Ri, Yo, Hu): Negative. Pathology: No presence of tumour cells.

Diagnosis
PARANEOPLASTIC LIMBIC ENCEPHALITIS WITH FOCAL STATUS LIMITED TO LANGUAGE.

Treatment
Monotherapy was started with Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2, days 1, 8, 15 every 28 days, with doses adjusted to 80% for the patient's baseline situation. On the eighth day of treatment, the patient suffered a marked worsening and developed bone marrow toxicity (Hb: 7.6g/dL). Due to this worsening, it was decided to discontinue treatment and refer the patient to Palliative Home Care.

Evolution
The patient presented a torpid evolution with persistence of global aphasia. Initially, CT and MRI scans of the brain were performed, which ruled out brain metastases or leptomeningeal involvement. Lumbar puncture was performed with microbiological analysis, cytology and onconeuronal antibodies. Herpes Simplex Virus1 (HSV1) infection was suspected as it can cause encephalitis with symptoms compatible with those of our patient, so empirical treatment was started with Acyclovir, which was suspended after obtaining a negative serology result.
On the fourth day of admission he presented two focal tonic-clonic seizures with trismus, without sphincter relaxation. The urgent CT scan was normal and the electroencephalogram (EEG) showed significant distress in temporal and diencephalic areas. Treatment with phenytoin and methylprednisolone was started, with progressive improvement of the confusional picture and aphasia. After 11 days of stay, the patient showed good expressive and compressive language and remained oriented in all three spheres and was discharged from hospital.
Three weeks after discharge, he attended the Oncology Outpatient Clinic, presented ECOG:2 and chemotherapy treatment was started (QMT) in monotherapy with Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2, days 1, 8, 15 every 28 days, with doses adjusted to 80% for the patient's baseline situation.
On the eighth day after the first cycle, he presented with great deterioration of general condition with an ECOG:3, jaundice, ascites and abdominal pain in the right hypochondrium with indurated and painful hepatomegaly. Analysis showed anaemia (Hb: 7.6 g/dL) not present at discharge. Due to the clinical deterioration and haematological toxicity, it was decided by consensus with the family to suspend chemotherapy and carry out symptomatic treatment. The patient was referred to the Palliative Home Care Unit. The patient died at home two months later.
