Anamnesis
A 47-year-old man with no history of pathology of interest came to consult his primary care doctor due to the appearance of a skin lesion on the left flank. He reports that it appeared approximately 1 month ago and has been increasing in size, and is also pruritic. She does not mention any other accompanying symptoms.

Physical examination
Of note is the presence of a subcutaneous nodule, approximately 3 cm in diameter, erythematous, non-painful, adherent to deep layers and located on the left flank. The rest of the physical examination was unremarkable.

Additional tests
It was decided to perform an excision of the subcutaneous nodule, the anatomopathological result being compatible with clear cell carcinoma.
In addition, we requested a thoracoabdominal-pelvic CT scan which revealed the presence of a heterogeneous left renal mass, with a central necrotic area, with maximum axes of 98 x 80 mm, arising from the posterior aspect and reaching almost the entire kidney, with extensive contact and infiltration of the renal artery in the hilum and contact with focal thinning of an intrarenal segment of the left renal vein. There is also a strongly enhancing soft tissue density of 27 mm major axis, located between the external oblique muscle and the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the left flank at the level of the kidney, in relation to a metastatic subcutaneous nodule (resected nodule). In addition, there are bilateral pulmonary nodules of diffuse distribution compatible with metastasis, as well as bilateral hilar adenopathies, the largest measuring 19 mm. The rest of the study shows no other findings.
Blood tests were normal, including renal function and haemogram. Similarly, no pathological findings were observed in the cranial CT scan.

Diagnosis
Based on these findings, the patient underwent laparoscopic radical left nephrectomy and excision of the subcutaneous metastasis. The pathology report confirmed the presence of a 9 cm clear cell renal carcinoma (Fuhrman grade 1) (pT3a pN0 pM1). We are therefore dealing with a 47-year-old man, with no pathological history of interest, with metastatic clear cell renal carcinoma with pulmonary and cutaneous involvement.

Treatment
After presenting the case to the Urological Tumours Committee, it was decided to start a first line of anti-TKI-VEGF treatment with sunitinib 50 mg/24 h with a 4 week treatment schedule and 2 weeks of rest.

Evolution
After 3 months of treatment, the patient showed a partial response. Toxicities included hand-foot syndrome, diarrhoea, dysgeusia and asthenia in relation to sarcopenia, all grade 1, which did not limit his daily activities of daily living.
After 5 months of treatment, the partial response was maintained but toxicity began to be more intense, so it was decided to modify the treatment schedule to sunitinib 50 mg/24 h for 2 weeks followed by 1 week of rest.
With this new dosage, the patient's quality of life improved and he was able to return to normal daily activities. After one year of treatment with sunitinib, the patient has a partial response.
After 16 months of treatment, the patient presented for consultation asymptomatic, except for residual hand-foot syndrome, but the re-evaluation CT scan showed pulmonary progression in relation to the significant growth of several of the metastatic pulmonary nodules. At this point, it was decided to seek approval for second-line treatment with nivolumab.
After obtaining approval for treatment, second line nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 14 days was started. After 3 months of treatment, the patient was completely asymptomatic and the iconographic study again showed a partial response, with a marked decrease in pulmonary nodules. After 32 cycles of nivolumab, the patient is living a normal life and the only notable toxicity of the treatment is pneumonitis at the level of the lingula, which does not cause dyspnoea or any other symptoms. To study the pneumonitis, we performed respiratory function tests, bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage, with no evidence of disease.
After 6 months of treatment with nivolumab, the patient achieved a complete response, with excellent tolerance to it and leading a normal life.
After 15 months of treatment with nivolumab, a CT scan showed a 1.5 cm nodule in the right adrenal gland, with a complete response in the pulmonary lesions. The case was presented again to the Urological Tumour Committee and it was decided to perform a right adrenalectomy. The anatomopathological study revealed a metastasis of clear cell carcinoma. The patient continued treatment with nivolumab and the post-surgical CT scan showed persistent complete tumour response with no other relevant findings except for the already known pneumonitis, which did not cause any symptoms.
The patient currently has an overall survival of 3 years, has received 42 cycles of nivolumab, maintains a complete response, is asymptomatic and leads an absolutely normal life.
