Anamnesis
Male patient with no medical or surgical history of interest, who presented at the age of 20 years with a clinical presentation of headache of three weeks' evolution, predominantly occipital and later with binocular diplopia.

Physical examination
Only mild pupillary asymmetry and binocular diplopia were noted.

Complementary tests
A computed tomography (CT) scan showed moderate hydrocephalus due to the presence of a mass in the posterior wall of the third ventricle/pineal gland and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the skull and spine showed pineal origin of the mass and absence of dissemination through the neuroaxis. On 11 May 2016 he underwent cerebrospinal fluid diversion and biopsy of the lesion showing a papillary pattern associated with a more diffuse pattern with ependymal-like rosettes with positive cytokeratins on immunohistochemistry.

Diagnosis
Localised papillary tumour of the pineal region.

Treatment
The patient was reoperated on 31 May 2016 by suprainfratentorial craniotomy for excision of the mass, achieving a complete resection. Subsequently, adjuvant radiotherapy treatment was decided on the surgical site with a dose of 52.2 Gy in 29 sessions, which were administered between July and September 2016.

Evolution
In November 2016, recurrence was detected in November 2016 due to locoregional leptomeningeal dissemination at the level of the cerebellar hemispheres in a control MRI. It was decided to administer craniospinal radiotherapy with a total dose of 52.2 Gy, which was completed in December 2016. On 30/01/2017 he started chemotherapy treatment with lomustine + cisplatin + vincristine. In August 2017, the patient completed five cycles of chemotherapy with a complete radiological response and acceptable tolerance, highlighting sensory neuropathy and decreases in the three series of the haemogram as toxicity.
Subsequently, two additional cycles were administered with dose reduction due to haematological toxicity, after which the patient was followed up.
In May 2018, the patient again presented radiological tumour progression. On 28/5/2018 he restarted treatment with lomustine + cisplatin + vincristine given the previous response, progressing radiologically after three cycles. On 18/9/2018 he started a second line of treatment with temozolamide, presenting after two cycles a significant radiological tumour progression (with massive cranial meningeal dissemination and at the level of the cauda equina) and clinical progression due to the appearance of left sciatic syndrome refractory to conventional analgesia and oral corticosteroids, requiring the administration of analgesic radiotherapy at the lumbosacral level. After radiotherapy, on 30/11/2018, the patient started a third line of chemotherapy with etoposide with dose reduction due to previous haematological toxicity, presenting radiological tumour stabilisation but poor haematological tolerance, which forced him to switch to an oral metronomic regimen and constant delays.
In March 2019, the patient developed febrile neutropenia with pulmonary superinfection by Pneumocystis jirovecii, requiring prolonged hospitalisation. Despite the additive stabilisation of the disease, given the clinical progression (reappearance of diplopia) and the high haematological toxicity to etoposide, it was decided to switch to a new line of treatment with bevacizumab, which started on 8/4/2019.
Since hospital discharge, the patient remains with established paraplegia secondary to tumour dissemination in the cauda equina and steroid myopathy. He is currently on four courses of treatment with bevacizumab and is awaiting MRI re-evaluation of the disease.
