Anamnesis
A 68-year-old woman with infiltrating ductal carcinoma (IDC) of the breast, stage IIIA. Undergoing active oncological treatment with neoadjuvant chemotherapy, she came to the Emergency Department with fever and persistent chills.

Oncological history
A 68-year-old Caucasian woman, currently retired (flight attendant in her professional life). Her personal history includes high blood pressure, hypothyroidism and several minor depressive episodes. She has no known toxic habits, adverse drug reactions or personal surgical history. She has no family history of cancer. As home treatment, she maintains enalapril/hydrochlorothiazide 20/12.5 mg/day, levothyroxine 75 mcg/day and lorazepam 1 mg/day.
In January 2019, aged 67, she was assessed in gynaecology for an asymptomatic lesion on the right nipple of the "erythema-eczema" type, which had been present for several months. She was diagnosed with breast IBC, histological grade 3, oestrogen receptor positive, progesterone receptor negative, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2) negative and Ki67 of 50% (luminal B), stage IIIA (T3N1M0, according to the TNM classification of the American Joint Committee on Cancer, 8th edition). Additional tests described an increased right breast density (BI-RADS 4 type lesion) and ipsilateral axillary lymphadenopathy (by mammography and breast and axillary ultrasound, respectively). The diagnosis of carcinoma was confirmed by core needle biopsy (CNB) of both the breast and one of the axillary lymph nodes. The extension study (breast MRI, CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis with contrast and bone scintigraphy) ruled out the presence of distant disease.
Neoadjuvant treatment based on weekly paclitaxel (receiving 12 cycles) and, subsequently, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin + cyclophosphamide (1 cycle so far) is proposed.

Current history
Two weeks after receiving chemotherapy, she came to the emergency department for urethral burning, dysuria and intermittent shivering sensation, of three days' evolution. Physical examination and complementary tests showed signs compatible with low-risk febrile neutropenia and uncomplicated lower urinary tract infection, so she was discharged with oral antibiotics, three doses of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) and hygienic-dietary measures.
However, she was seen a second time, ten days later, due to persistent dysuria, worsening chills and the onset of fever (maximum 38.2o thermometry), to which was added diathermic sensation, generalised arthromyalgia, non-specific lumbar pain and persistent insomnia.

Physical examination
Vitals: BP 183/63 mm Hg, HR 110 bpm, FR 15 rpm, SatO2 97 % (baseline) and Ta 37.7oC.
General inspection: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) level 1. Apparent good general condition. Eupneic at rest. Normal colour. Adequate distal perfusion.
Examination by apparatus and systems: neurological, head and neck, cardiorespiratory, abdominal and extremity examinations do not show any remarkable pathological signs or abnormal findings.

Complementary tests
Urgent biochemistry shows elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) (426.4 mg/l; VN 0-5), elevated procalcitonin (1.2 ng/ml; VN < 0.25) and elevated LDH (321 U/l; VN 40-240). Blood count revealed normocytic normochromic anaemia (Hb 8.5 g/dl; VN 12-16) and thrombocytosis (504,000/μl; VN 150,000-450,000). The neutrophil count has recovered. Coagulation is normal.
The electrocardiogram and the PA and lateral chest X-ray show no evidence of ischaemia and do not reveal parenchymal consolidation or pleural effusion, respectively.
Urine sediment is pathological, revealing microscopic haematuria, pyuria and abundant bacteriuria. Nitrites are negative. The urine culture requested at the previous ED visit was negative.
Differential blood cultures and urine culture were also requested.

Diagnosis
Suspected complicated UTI resistant to oral antibiotherapy in an immunocompromised patient.

Treatment
Hospital admission with intravenous antibiotherapy directed at the urinary focus, consisting of ceftriaxone 2 g/24 hours, and preferably urological ultrasound.

Evolution
The patient was admitted with clinical and haemodynamic stability. During admission, antibiotic therapy was administered to the urinary focus. The urological ultrasound did not show collections suggestive of abscess or dilatation of the excretory tract. Despite the absence of microbiological isolation, the patient continued with fever, associated dysthermia and worsening general clinical condition, with limiting asthenia. Antibiotic coverage was increased with piperacillin-tazobactam and vancomycin, and new cultures were taken. The cultures taken in the ED were negative.
A transthoracic echocardiogram and contrast-enhanced CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis were requested to rule out complications that could justify the clinical picture. The first describes a discrete periaortic thickening, of doubtful significance; the second reveals the presence of a striking thickening and enhancement of the aortic arch, descending aorta and supra-aortic trunks, suggestive of vasculitis of the great vessels. Based on this suspicion as a possible cause of the febrile syndrome, immunological and autoimmune studies, viral serology and a study of possible iatrogenic triggering drugs were requested. Notable findings were an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR; 140 mm; VN 1-20) and a low positive titre (1/80) of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), both non-specific. IgG4 titre is normal. All serologies are negative and the patient does not meet the criteria for a diagnosis of rheumatological disease. After ruling out other causes, a diagnosis of large vessel vasculitis secondary to drugs (most likely G-CSF) is considered. The administration of this drug is prohibited and treatment with high-dose oral prednisone is started.
