Physical examination
The patient was in good general condition, normal colour, well hydrated and perfused, eupneic. The examination revealed a violaceous lesion on the left breast in the upper area of the inner quadrant measuring 2 cm and another violaceous, indurated and painful lesion with underlying ecchymosis measuring about 5 cm over the scar. Palpation revealed no peripheral lymph nodes. The rest of the examination is unremarkable.

Additional tests
A biopsy was taken of the larger lesion, which was non-specific and showed no signs of malignancy. In view of the increase in size of the lesion and its necrotic appearance, in December 2016, the patient was referred to the dermatology department, who repeated the biopsy, obtaining the same results.
It was therefore decided to perform surgical excision of the skin lesion by Dermatology on 31 December 2016, and the histology was reported as compatible with cutaneous angiosarcoma.
A thoracoabdominal CT scan was performed to stage the disease, showing an increase in breast density with associated skin thickening, suspicious for malignancy, with no evidence of mediastinal or intra-abdominal lymphadenopathy.

Diagnosis
Conventional cutaneous angiosarcoma of 4.5 cm, histological grade 3 (according to the FNCLCC grading system), tumour extension to subcutaneous cellular tissue, mitotic index of 24 mitoses/10 CGA with free margins. Immunohistochemistry positive for CD34 and negative for HHV8 with a Ki 67 of 60%. TNM stage: pT1a Nx Mx.

Treatment
Given the suspicion of persistence of the disease and rapid local growth, the case was evaluated by the breast tumour committee together with Nephrology and Gynaecology, and it was decided to perform a simple mastectomy of the left breast, which was carried out in February 2017.

Evolution
She was referred to the oncology department in February 2017 for follow-up and subsequent treatment, and the patient was found to be asymptomatic with ECOG 0.
In March 2017, a PET scan was performed to update the status of the disease, showing an 8 mm hypermetabolic subcutaneous nodule with SULpeak 1.9 located in the region anterior to the proximal end of the left clavicle, and which looked like pathological lymphadenopathy (reference SULpeak 2.65). A soft tissue ultrasound was performed, showing the suspicious lymphadenopathy measuring 12 x 10 mm, in subcutaneous fatty tissue, neither adherent nor bone-dependent, and a percutaneous biopsy was performed.
The results of the pathological anatomy revealed necrotic tissue without being able to recognise lymph nodes. Immunohistochemistry showed expression of CD31, CD34 and factor VIII, with negative expression of oestrogen receptors, suggesting angiosarcoma metastasis.
In April 2017, the metastasis was surgically resected with free edges.
Given the absence of macroscopic residual disease observed in a new PET scan (May 2017), radiotherapy treatment was ruled out and it was decided, after reassessing the case together with Nephrology, to administer paclitaxel at a dose of 80 mg/m2 weekly with adjuvant intent, which was started on 5 June 2017. Currently, he has three cycles of the 12 planned, administered without incident and maintaining stable renal function (baseline creatinine around 3.5).
