Anamnesis
The patient came to the emergency department in August 2018 with persistent fever. As relevant symptoms she presented with pharyngeal pruritus, without odynophagia, with an increase in baseline dyspnoea until it became minimal-moderate effort. No cough or expectoration. He reported nausea, without vomiting or diarrhoea, similar to those he had experienced since starting treatment. No urinary symptoms. No other symptoms were found by apparatus and systems.

Physical examination
The patient's vital signs were stable except for significant desaturation: 73% baseline oxygen saturation (she was not on home oxygen); afebrile on arrival at the emergency department, stable in all other signs. Examination of the oral cavity revealed raised whitish lumpy plaques on the lingual mucosa, non-adherent, with no evidence in the tonsillar or pharyngeal region. The rest of the physical examination, including pulmonary auscultation, was unremarkable.

Complementary tests
Blood tests were requested with baseline arterial blood gases. Acute phase reactants were elevated, with C-reactive protein of 202.5 mg/l, with no other relevant alterations. Blood gas analysis showed acute partial respiratory failure with lactate in normal gases (pH: 7.48, pCO2: 35 mm Hg, pO2: 35 mm Hg, HCO3: 25.3 mM/l, lactate: 1.2 mM/l). A chest X-ray was requested, with bilateral interstitial infiltrate pattern. In view of the findings and, given the higher thromboembolic risk of cancer patients, despite being anticoagulated at therapeutic doses, CT angiography of the pulmonary arteries was requested. The presence of pulmonary thromboembolism was ruled out, but extensive interstitial pulmonary opacities were observed with thickening of the interlobular septa and peribronchovascular interstitium with diffuse bilateral ground-glass involvement and consolidations in the lower lobes, predominantly central with subpleural respect, as well as in the lateral and posterior costophrenic sinuses, forming a cobblestone pattern suggestive of acute respiratory distress syndrome. In the case of our patient, given the clinical context and history, the images were compatible with pulmonary toxicity due to drugs.
She was admitted to Medical Oncology. Serologies were extracted and were negative, highlighting cytomegalovirus, aspergillus fumigatus, Legionella, acute Q fever, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydia pneumoniae, etc. Diagnostic fibrobronchoscopy was requested with bronchoalveolar lavage and alveolar bronchoaspirate, whose cultures were also negative. Flow cytometry of bronchoalveolar lavage was performed with a finding of lymphocytosis (28% [normal range: 1%-10%], and CD4/CD8 ratio inversion (CD4/CD8 ratio: 0.74 [normal range: 1.3-3.5]), with macrophages: 70% and neutrophils: 1%. Although the increase in lymphocytes is usually even higher than reported, these findings are compatible with hypersensitivity pneumonitis/drug-induced alveolitis.

Diagnosis
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis and/or alveolitis induced by gemcitabine and/or nab-paclitaxel together with acute partial respiratory failure secondary to the above.

Treatment
Discontinuation of the suspected drugs (gemcitabine-nab-paclitaxel), empirical antibiotherapy (in our case imipenem, cotrimoxazole and sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, later de-escalating to levofloxacin) together with corticotherapy when we had compatible flow cytometry, starting prednisone at 40 mg per day, as well as supportive therapy.

Evolution
The patient was admitted to the Medical Oncology ward with empirical antibiotic treatment with imipenem, cotrimoxazole and sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim, and with continuation of the diagnostic study. During admission, negative microbiological results were received, as well as the results of the flow cytometry which confirmed the diagnosis of hypersensitivity pneumonitis/drug-induced alveolitis, so prednisone was started orally at 40 mg per day, de-escalating the antibiotic to levofloxacin.
She showed significant clinical and radiological improvement, so she was discharged with corticotherapy with progressive reduction, as well as antibiotherapy with oral levofloxacin to complete the antibiotic cycle.
That same month of August, in addition to the pneumonitis, clear hepatic progression was observed, and she was started on second line FOLFOX. In February 2019, new hepatic progression was observed, so in March 2019 a third line of 5-fluorouracil with pegylated liposomal irinotecan was started, having received 2 cycles to date. Due to frank clinical worsening, it has now been decided to discontinue active oncology treatment and the patient is being followed by the home care support team.
