Anamnesis
The patient is a 66-year-old woman, with no known drug allergies and an active smoker of 7-8 cigarettes a day, with a cumulative rate of 19 pack-years. Independent for basic activities of daily living. Family history of cancer: mother died of pancreatic neoplasia at the age of 89 and father died of prostate neoplasia at the age of 79. As pathological history, she had a cured hepatitis B virus infection. He had no previous surgical interventions.
Her oncological history began in July 2018 when she began to experience progressive symptoms of early fullness with predominantly postprandial epigastralgia, without clear dysphagia, as well as associated weight loss of 3 kg. The patient finally consulted a private clinic in January 2019, and a diagnostic study was initiated. Subsequently, she requested transfer to our centre to complete the study and treatment.

Physical examination
During the physical examination, the abdomen was soft and depressible, not painful on palpation, with no palpable masses or visceromegaly. No peripheral adenopathies were palpable. The rest of the physical examination by apparatus was unremarkable. The patient had an ECOG of 1.

Complementary tests
Initial laboratory tests, with determination of tumour markers, showed an elevated Ca 19.9 of 1,246 U/mL and CEA values within normal range.
Abdominal computed tomography (January 2019) showed diffuse thickening of the gastric fundus wall with extension to the gastro-oesophageal junction, as well as visualisation of small retroperitoneal adenopathies.
Fibrogastroscopy was performed (January 2019), which showed vegetative neoformation in the gastro-oesophageal junction, located 35 cm from the dental arch (lower oesophageal third), with extension to the cardia, subcardial region, gastric body and lesser curvature, and samples were taken for biopsy.
Pathological anatomy was positive for moderately differentiated tubulo-papillary adenocarcinoma with a positive result for Helicobacter pylori infection, with negative PDL-1, negative HER-2, negative MSS and negative Epstein-Barr virus.
Echoendoscopy (January 2019) showed invasion of all layers of the oesophageal wall, as well as several lymphadenopathies suspicious for malignancy. The lesion was adjacent to the aorta without being able to assess the presence of invasion (uT4N1 staging).
The PET-CT extension study (January 2019) showed evidence of hypermetabolic mural thickening of the oesophageal-gastric junction, from the supracardial oesophagus to the fundus and gastric body at the level of the lesser curvature, with SUVmax 18.3. Adenopathies were visualised close to the gastric wall tumour, in the territory of the left gastric artery and celiac trunk, with SUVmax 7.8, suggestive of malignancy. There was also evidence of a 7 mm lymph node in the left supraclavicular space with weak uptake, undetermined; however, complementary techniques were recommended to rule out its involvement. A puncture of the adenopathy was performed, which was negative for malignant cells.
Finally, an oesophago-gastro-duodenal transit was performed (January 2019) which showed irregular sharpening of the mucosa at the level of the distal oesophagus in a 3 cm trajectory that continued caudally towards the cardia and at the proximal level of the fundus and of minor curvature.

Diagnosis
Based on the results obtained in the complementary examinations performed, the patient was diagnosed with infiltrating adenocarcinoma of the gastro-oesophageal junction Siewert II with extension to the gastric fundus, stage III, uT4N1 by CT and echoendoscopy, the extension study being negative for distant dissemination by PET-CT. A puncture of hypercapillary left supraclavicular adenopathy was performed by PET-CT, and the FNA was negative for malignancy.

Treatment
Perioperative chemotherapy treatment was started with FLOT for 4 cycles from 06/02/2019 to 23/03/2019. During the course of treatment, the patient required a dose reduction of 5-fluorouracil (after the first cycle) and withdrawal of leucovorin (after the second cycle) due to gastrointestinal and haematological toxicity, requiring the administration of colony-stimulating factors (pegfilgrastim) as primary prophylaxis from the start of treatment.
In the re-evaluation PET-CT scan (March 2019), after completing neoadjuvant treatment, there was a reduction in mural thickening and a near normalisation of glucose metabolism. At the same time, there was a favourable response at the peritumoral adenopathic level with total normalisation of metabolism, with no new lesions appearing.
The control fibrogastroscopy (April 2019) showed a deep linear ulceration in the lower third of the oesophagus up to the cardia, and biopsies were taken which showed mild to moderate oesophagitis with no evidence of malignancy.
Surgery was performed on 07/05/2019 by laparoscopic Ivor Lewis type oesophagectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy, with no immediate or late complications. Placement of a feeding jejunostomy. Six days after the operation, she started an oral diet, which was well tolerated. She was discharged home with oral and artificial enteral nutrition.
The surgical specimen was sent for anatomopathological study with a definitive result of complete pathological response, ypT0N0. Isolation of 32 lymph nodes with no evidence of malignancy. The tumour regression grade was 0 (complete response). The specimen was reincluded to confirm the absence of residual lesion, and immunohistochemical techniques were used.

Evolution
The patient is currently in excellent general condition and is currently undergoing the first cycle of adjuvant treatment, following the same FLOT chemotherapy schedule for 4 cycles, which began on 30/05/2019. In the last analytical control carried out, a complete serological response was evidenced, with Ca 19.9 of 6.2 U/ml.
