Anamnesis
We present the case of a 79-year-old man, a retired doctor, with a history of hypertension, who underwent surgery for right inguinal hernia in 2008 and left knee replacement in 2011. He received treatment with amlodipine 5 mg and irbesartan 150 mg.
He was diagnosed in 2009 with a PSA of 14 ng/ml, a prostate adenocarcinoma Gleason 5 + 4, localised disease. He received treatment with local radiotherapy followed by double androgen blockade for 3 years with leuprorelin and bicalutamide. He continued to undergo check-ups until June 2018, when he began to experience alterations in his bowel rhythm, and a locoregional recurrence with rectal infiltration and lymph node involvement was observed. The prostate biopsy confirmed a 100% small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, so cisplatin-etoposide was started and he received 4 cycles until October 2018. She presented with grade 3 peripheral neuropathy, which made it necessary to discontinue treatment and she continued to undergo check-ups. In January 2019, she presented with a lingering clinical picture of temporospatial disorientation, recent memory loss, as well as paroxysmal and self-limited episodes of mandibular tremor, for which it was decided to admit her for further study.

Physical examination
Karnofsky index of 70. Temporal disorientation with marked impairment of immediate memory, which she recovered with clues. Five episodes of left hemifacial clonus lasting 10 seconds were observed, with a feeling of anguish and unprovoked crying.

Complementary tests
Haemogram, biochemistry and coagulation without alterations. Folic acid, B12, tumour markers, varicella, hepatitis B, hepatitis C and QuantiFERON serologies were normal. Cranial CT scan showed small vessel ischaemia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed a hypersignal in both temporal lobes, at the right insular corticosubcortical level and left temporal amygdala, compatible with autoimmune encephalitis. Video-electroencephalography (V-EEG) was performed and no epileptiform activity was observed. An IgA and basic thyroid immunological study was completed and was negative. Subsequently, antineuronal antibodies were determined in blood, with a positive result for anti-HU.

Diagnosis
The patient was therefore diagnosed with autoimmune limbic encephalitis due to anti-HU antibodies, with a locoregional and lymph node relapse due to undifferentiated neuroendocrine carcinoma of the prostate.

Treatment
He received anticommitant treatment with levetiracetam with improvement of the facial clonus. Once the autoimmune aetiology was known, immunosuppressive treatment was started with intravenous boluses of methylprednisolone 1 g/24 hours for 5 days.

Evolution
Initial favourable response to treatment with no new episodes of facial clonus, although memory lapses persisted. After completing corticotherapy, he presented three generalised tonic-clonic crises without recovery, requiring orotracheal intubation and admission to the Intensive Care Unit. Levetiracetam, midazolam and diazepam were administered with good evolution and he was extubated. New immunosuppressive treatment was then started with rituximab associated with oral cyclophosphamide at metronomic doses, presenting clinical improvement with disappearance of emotional lability, and without new convulsive episodes.

