Anamnesis
A 61-year-old woman with a personal history of hiatus hernia, childhood tuberculosis and correctly treated hepatitis B virus.

Her gynaecological history includes surgery in 2001 for right adnexectomy for cystic mature teratoma.

In 2006, she underwent an appendectomy at another hospital for mucus in the abdominal cavity. Pathology revealed mucinous cystadenoma of the appendix, with lesion-free surgical resection margins.

In January 2013, she visited the gynaecology outpatient clinic for postmenopausal metrorrhagia, as well as abdominal discomfort with slight postprandial abdominal distension. No nausea or vomiting. No alterations in bowel habits. No other symptoms.

Physical examination
Vital signs within normal limits. Acceptable general condition, normohydrated and normoperfused. Eupneic. PCA: nondescript. Abdomen: distended, discomfort on palpation in the hypogastrium and right iliac fossa. No masses or visceromegaly palpable. Hydro-aerial noises present. Blumberg negative. Murphy negative. MMII: perimalleolar oedema. Vaginal examination: long posterior cervix, no pain on cervical mobilisation or at the fundus pouch of Douglas. The size and consistency of the uterus appear normal. No adnexal masses are palpable.

Complementary tests
Given the patient's age and clinical features, in view of the anodyne examination, additional tests were requested to rule out gynaecological pathology:
"Blood tests: Hb 10.2 g/dl, all other parameters within normal range.
"Tumour markers: CEA 9.5; CA 19.9: 120.4; HE4 54.4. Ca 125 112.4.
"A transvaginal ultrasound was performed, showing free fluid in the pelvis and a 37 mm hyperechogenic image in the left adnexal area.
"In view of these findings, an abdominopelvic CT scan was requested, which revealed findings compatible with peritoneal carcinomatosis, extensive involvement of the greater omentum infiltrated by multiple masses and peritoneal adenopathies; an enlargement of the left adnexa was visualised.
"Following the CT scan report of peritoneal carcinomatosis with alteration of the left adnexa, ovarian adenocarcinoma is the first possibility.

Diagnosis
Based on the radiological findings described above, a diagnostic laparatomy with intraoperative biopsy was performed in February 2013. The pathological anatomy revealed infiltration of peritoneal implants, tube, left ovary and meso intestine by mucinous adenocarcinoma. Immunohistochemistry studies were performed, showing strong positivity for CK20 and negative for CK7, suggesting a primary intestinal origin; there were no mutations in KRAS and NRAS.

With these data, the diagnosis of peritoneal carcinomatosis due to pseudomyxoma peritonei was established and the case was presented to the tumour committee, deciding to refer to the reference hospital to assess the possibility of Sugarbarker perinectomy and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC).

Treatment
On 15 May 2013 a laparotomy was performed, finding peritoneal carcinomatosis due to very advanced peritoneal pseudomyxoma peritoneum, with a carcinomatosis index greater than 30, disseminated disease throughout the small intestine, and radical surgery was therefore ruled out.

Palliative resection of both omentum, cholecystectomy and nodules larger than 5 cm were performed, and intraoperative hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy was administered with palliative intent of mitomycin at a dose of 10 mg/m2 in a 90-minute infusion and cisplatin 50 mg/m2, with good postoperative evolution.

Evolution
The first post-surgery CT scan (July 2013) showed progression of the disease with respect to the February study, showing little response to chemotherapy.

From the clinical point of view, the patient was asymptomatic, so after considering various options, palliative chemotherapy FOLFOX 6 was administered starting on 13/8/2013, of which she received 13 cycles, from cycle 7 without oxyplatin due to maintained grade 2 neurotoxicity.

In the control CT scan after 10 cycles, minimal pelvic progression was observed, but in agreement with the patient it was decided to continue treatment.

Last cycle on 2/9/2014, with CT scan at that time stable in size in relation to the previous study.

In March 2015, the control CT scan showed mild/moderate progression of the disease compared to the previous study. It was discussed again in the tumour committee, contraindicating a new surgery, so second-line chemotherapy with XELIRI was considered at that time, with a dose reduction due to previous toxicity. Started on 14/4/2015.
