Anamnesis
Hypertensive 69-year-old male, with no other history of interest or toxic habits.
Oncological history of microinvasive carcinoma of the penis in 2015, treated with multiple local resections with free margins, in a patient who was not a carrier of human papillomavirus (HPV).
In April 2017 he was seen with an abscessed mass in the penis.

Physical examination
The patient presents an acceptable general condition with ECOG 1. Conscious and oriented in the three spheres: time, space and time. Normal colour, normohydrated and normoperfused. Eupneic at rest. During the examination, a penectomy scar was identified, with no signs of infection in the process of healing, and fibrosis was found on palpation. Suprapubic bladder catheter with no signs of infection and urine without sediment. The rest of the abdominal examination, lower limbs and pulmonary and cardiac auscultation had no other significant alterations.

Complementary tests
On initial suspicion of infection, penectomy and perineostomy were performed. Anatomical pathology described recurrence of penile carcinoma, with infiltration of the corpora cavernosa.
A re-evaluation CT scan in June 2017 showed an 11 mm right inguinal adenopathy suggestive of malignancy, with no other findings. He underwent surgery in July 2017 with right lymphadenectomy, with no evidence of malignancy on review by the pathologist.
A PET-CT scan was requested to complete the study, which was performed in August, showing local recurrence from the base of the penis to the surgical limit with locoregional implants at the base of the penis, and left inguinal lymphadenopathy at the limit of normality, with FDG uptake (SUVmax 5.5) suggestive of inflammatory cause. There were no signs of distant dissemination. With confirmation of the lesions on pelvic MRI in September.
The postoperative period was torpid with repeated infections in the form of abscesses requiring multiple drainage and antibiotic therapy.

Diagnosis
69-year-old male with recurrence of moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma that reached deep into the fat. Involvement of the scrotum and urethra, with staging PT4 Nx M0.

Treatment
After presenting the case to the committee, a surgical approach with radical intent was decided. He underwent surgery in September 2017, removing a supra and infrapubic tumour mass with ureterectomy and cerclage of the bladder neck and suprapubic cystostomy, with confirmation of recurrence of squamous cell carcinoma.
Pelvic MRI was requested for assessment of adjuvant treatment, with findings of an abscessed tumour mass with infiltration of the perineal region and both scrotal pouches extending to the prostatic apex, with significant adenopathies in the inguinal and external iliac chains.
The case was presented again to the multidisciplinary committee, being assessed by Radiotherapy Oncology, which rejected treatment due to the extension of the disease, and was assessed by Medical Oncology, which indicated chemotherapy with a TIP scheme (paclitaxel 175/m2 day 1, cisplatin 25 mg/m2 days 1-3, ifosfamide 1,200 mg/m2 days 1-3, which started in October).

Evolution
Toxicity during treatment included grade 2 neutropenia coinciding with nadir, and the appearance of a perineal abscess with spontaneous drainage. Surgical wound culture revealed pseudomonas, which was treated with quinolones according to the antibiogram, and the patient showed clinical improvement. He received support with filgrastim 30 IU for 5 days, which was subsequently prescribed prophylactically in subsequent cycles. She was readmitted after the 2nd cycle due to new perineal abscessation with spontaneous drainage and necrotic soft tissue enlargement.
In view of the unfavourable evolution, a new imaging test was requested, showing progression of the voluminous residual mass in the perineal region, with stability of inguinal lymph nodes and slight splenic growth with small indeterminate hypocaptic lesions. The patient presented with poor pain control, requiring intrathecal perfusion of opioids and bupivacaine for symptomatic control. In the absence of clinical benefit, associated with the deterioration of the patient's functional state, active oncological treatment was rejected and the patient was referred to the Palliative Care Unit for adjustment of the therapeutic effort. The patient died 2 months later.
