Anamnesis
66-year-old woman, with a history of hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, operated on for right breast lumpectomy in 1975 for benign pathology, urinary incontinence, varicose veins, meniscopathy and myopia, on regular treatment with losartan and atorvastatin. Diagnosed in December 2015 with locally advanced infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the right breast E-IIB (T2N1M0) HER2 positive phenotype. ER+++. PR +. Ki 67 15%. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (QT) was decided with a scheme of liposomal Doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 (day 1) + Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 (day 1,8,15) + Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg (day 1) and 2 mg (day 8,15), with a loading dose in cycle 1. After receiving 2 complete cycles of treatment, she went to the emergency department for a 3-day fever of up to 39oC, with slight discomfort when swallowing and generalised arthromyalgia, without cough or expectoration or other infectious semiology, with normal chest X-ray, and was discharged with a diagnosis of acute pharyngitis, with antibiotic treatment. Four days later, she was seen again for worsening general condition and fever of 39oC, accompanied by cough, chest pain with pleuritic characteristics, with recent onset dyspnoea on minimal exertion, with orthopnoea and oliguria. Given the seriousness of the situation, with signs of severe respiratory failure, he was transferred to the ICU. During his stay in the ICU, broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy was started, and treatment with non-invasive ventilation was maintained for several hours, later requiring intubation and vasoactive drugs. Given the lack of clinical improvement over the days, antiviral (oseltamivir), antifungal (voriconazole) and cotrimoxazole treatment was associated with the immunosuppressed state, while awaiting the results of the complementary tests.

Physical examination
On arrival at the emergency department, poor general condition, mucocutaneous pallor, tachypnoea at 36 rpm, with intercostal pull. Slurred speech. BP 115/70. HR 110. SATO2 84% room air. SATO2 90% with reservoir at 100%. ACP: rhythmic heart sounds, no murmurs. Vesicular murmur decreased globally, with crepitant rales, rhonchi and wheezing in both lung fields. Abdomen: Hydro-aerial sounds present. Soft, depressible, not painful on palpation. No peritoneal reaction. No oedema in lower limbs. Weak but symmetrical pulses.

Complementary tests
. Blood analysis: Hb 8.9. Leukocytes 12,100. Normal liver and kidney function.
. Arterial blood gases: pO2 57 mmHg with ventimask mask at 50%. SATO2 82%.
. ECG: Sinus tachycardia at 110 beats per minute.
. Chest X-ray: Bilateral cottony infiltrates in both upper lobes and LID.
. Chest CT: Patchy ground-glass pattern, with areas of peribronchial consolidation, bilateral subpleural.
. Negative antigens for Legionella and pneumococcus.
. PCR for influenza A, influenza B, RSV A and B, TB, galactomannan, Pneumocystis jirovecii, CMV, Epstein Barr Virus, Mycoplasma, Coxiella burnetii, chlamydia, Herpes virus 1 and 2 negative.
. Blood cultures, urine cultures negative.
. Echocardiography: Ejection fraction preserved. No alterations.
. Fibrobronchoscopy: bronchial tubes permeable, normal calibre, with erythematous mucosa and scarce serous secretion. BAL flow cytometry: 84% lymphocytosis (T lymphocytes 98%, B 0.5%, and NK 1.5%). AP: absence of malignant cells.

Diagnosis
Chemotherapy drug-induced interstitial pneumonitis complicated by acute respiratory distress syndrome.

Treatment
In view of the diagnostic results, it was decided to suspend all anti-infective treatment, and intravenous methylprednisolone was started at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day.

Evolution
After starting corticosteroid treatment, the patient showed clinical, analytical and radiological improvement, which subsequently allowed extubation, maintaining non-invasive mechanical ventilation with a gradual decrease in flow and clinical stability, so she was transferred to the hospital ward, where corticosteroid treatment was continued and oxygen flow was progressively reduced, reaching its withdrawal with adequate tolerance, and she was discharged from hospital with oral corticosteroids in a descending pattern.

Given the grade 4 pulmonary toxicity induced by QT drugs, she was presented to the breast tumour committee, where it was decided to suspend neoadjuvant treatment and re-evaluation study, finding RP, which led to quadrantectomy and adjuvant radiotherapy. She is currently ECOG 0, on treatment with letrozole and with no evidence of tumour disease.
