Anamnesis
The patient presented is a 42-year-old woman, with no known drug allergies, smoking since the age of 18, with a daily consumption of 20 cigarettes, and no enolic habit. She is a housewife who lives with her partner and has had a child since the age of 35. Her family history includes a history of her father diagnosed with a liver neoplasm at the age of 77. Her medical history includes a tonsillectomy in childhood with no other data of interest.
Her oncological history began in July 2016 when she consulted her family doctor for telorrhoea in the nipple of her left breast, and a bilateral mammogram was requested for study. Given the alteration of the mammography, she was referred to the Breast Pathology Unit of the Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol (ICO-Badalona).
Initially, the physical examination revealed eczema on the left nipple, and a mammogram of the left breast (in the lower left quadrant [CII]) showed a spiculated nodule approximately 5 cm in size, highly suspicious of malignancy (BI-RADS 5), which was biopsied. In addition, ultrasound of the left axillary nodes was performed in which one of them had a thickened cortical layer (3.9 mm), so FNA was performed.
The biopsy of the IIC node was positive for infiltrating ductal carcinoma, with oestrogen receptors (ER) 0 %, progesterone receptors (PR 0 %), HER-2 amplified; and the cytology of the left axillary FNA was positive for carcinoma metastasis. After completing an extension study with bone scintigraphy and thoracoabdominal CT scan, which ruled out the presence of distant disease, a diagnosis of cT4N1M0 (stage IIIB), HER-2 positive, hormone receptor negative left breast neoplasm was made.
Considering the stage and biological characteristics of the disease, the patient started neoadjuvant treatment with adriamycin and cyclophosphamide (AC) for four cycles, followed by paclitaxel-trastuzumab-pertuzumab for four cycles, prior to surgery. The patient completed neoadjuvant treatment in January 2017, with good tolerance to treatment, presenting only grade 1-2 neurotoxicity as complications.
In April 2017, surgery was performed and a mastectomy with axillary lymph node emptying was performed, presenting in the pathological anatomy nests of residual infiltrating ductal carcinoma in an extension of 19 mm (each of the nests less than 1 mm) without affecting the margins of resection, with micrometastasis of carcinoma (1 mm) in one of the 11 isolated nodes. It was assessed as a partial pathological response (Symmans RCB-I).
The patient was evaluated after surgery, and treatment with subcutaneous trastuzumab was initiated to complete one year of treatment, starting on 10 May 2017.

Physical examination
On 5 June 2017, the patient consulted our centre for two weeks of dyspnoea that had progressed to minimal effort with cough without expectoration and febrile peaks of up to 38°C, predominantly at night. Initially, baseline O2 saturation of 87% was detected and oxygen therapy was started, with normotension and no fever.

Complementary tests
Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis of 20. 200 with 94% of segmented neutrophils with increased RFA (fibrinogen 695 mg/dl and CRP 81.5 mg/l) and baseline blood gas showed respiratory failure with p02 of 51 mm Hg with normocapnia and no alteration of pH; However, the chest X-ray was the complementary examination that contributed most to the initial orientation of the case, as it showed a bilateral infiltrate due to alveolar space involvement, predominantly in the lower lobes, which did not exist in the chest X-ray taken on 27 March after neoadjuvant treatment and prior to surgery. It was decided to admit the patient for study and therapeutic management.

Diagnosis
Based on the chest X-ray pattern, a differential diagnosis had to be made between the different aetiologies:
Infectious aetiology: this is the main cause to rule out in view of this radiological finding and the laboratory analysis with leukocytosis, in addition to the history of fever. Initially, blood and urine cultures were obtained.
Cardiac aetiology: given that the patient had received cardiotoxic oncological treatment (such as adriamycin and trastuzumab), we had to rule out the possibility that the image corresponded to pulmonary oedema.
For this purpose, the patient's recent ventriculography with an LVEF of 67% was checked.
Haemorrhagic aetiology: this is another cause to rule out with the radiological pattern, in this case the patient remained haemodynamically stable at all times and with a preserved haematocrit.
Toxic aetiology: this origin is due to the treatment the patient received. The pulmonary toxicity caused by trastuzumab and paclitaxel is well known.
Given the different possible aetiologies, empirical antibiotic treatment was started, in this case ceftriaxone and levofloxacin, with the possibility of a respiratory infection caused by atypical pathogens, and corticotherapy to alleviate the possible toxic origin, as both are the most frequent aetiologies.
During admission, a thoracic CT scan was performed which confirmed the presence of bilateral diffuse ground-glass infiltrates with basal predominance, which could be attributed to pulmonary toxicity due to drugs without being able to rule out other causes (viral or Pneumocystis pneumonia, pulmonary oedema or alveolar haemorrhage). Bronchoscopy showed no anatomical alterations and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples were obtained for cytology and microbiology, in addition to a bronchoalveolar aspirate (BAS).
To study the infectious aetiology, PCR detection of Aspergillus, herpes and CMV in plasma was also performed, which were negative, pneumococcal and Legionella antigenurias were also negative, and finally the samples obtained by bronchoscopy provided a BAL that showed cellularity with a predominance of macrophages, the BAL and BAS cultures were negative, and the cytology obtained was negative for malignant cells.

Treatment
(Included in the evolution section).

Evolution
Thus, after ruling out the infectious origin due to all the negative findings, the cardiological oedema by recent ventriculography (March 2017) with LVEF of 67% and absence of radiological signs such as cardiomegaly, and the alveolar haemorrhage due to the preservation of the haematocrit and the bronchoscopy findings, was classified as pneumonitis related to the oncological treatments received (paclitaxel, trastuzumab and pertuzumab) and corticoid treatment was maintained, improving the patient's respiratory clinical picture and the radiological image shown in the control X-ray prior to discharge.
