Anamnesis
This is a 64-year-old woman, with no history of interest or comorbidities diagnosed in November 2015 with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma (cT1a N3 M1). She presented extensive costal and axillary involvement with negative molecular study (EGFR not mutated, ALK and ROS-1 not translocated, PD-L1 5%) who received treatment with cisplatin-pemetrexed from December to April 2016.
After 6 cycles, he started maintenance with pemetrexed monotherapy with good tolerance.
In July 2016, she presented with progression of the rib lesion, for which she underwent local radiotherapy and was referred to the clinical trials unit of the Hospital Fundación Jiménez Díaz. The patient was asked to participate in a clinical trial with a PD-L1 inhibitor in combination with an anti-VEGFR-2 drug. She met the criteria and started treatment in August 2016. A partial response was observed from the first CT scan in October 2016, which she maintained until February 2018. As a treatment toxicity, the patient presented with a grade I skin rash and grade II adrenal insufficiency (both related to the medication) that required replacement treatment with hydroaltesone 20 mg daily.
On 2 February 2018, in a sustained partial response, she came to the Emergency Department with a 3-day-long emetic and diarrhoeic picture of non-pathological stools. She also presented with abdominal pain, severe headache, asthenia and functional deterioration. On arrival, a fever peak of 38.5oC was noted; physical examination revealed profuse sweating and haemodynamically hypotensive (87/55), all of which was justified as an adrenal crisis due to increased corticoid requirements in a situation of metabolic stress. Despite all this, the patient was in good general condition and no alterations were observed in the neurological examination. Blood and stool cultures were taken and a chest X-ray was performed with no abnormalities.
Nasal lavage was performed and the results were positive for influenza virus AH3. She was therefore admitted to the Medical Oncology Department, where treatment was started with oseltamivir and high-dose hydrocortisone, with stabilisation of blood pressure and initial clinical improvement, becoming afebrile 48 hours after admission.
On 8 February, the patient's blood pressure rose progressively and remained elevated for 24 hours (with no known previous hypertension), and that same night she presented with an episode of hypertension of 210/110 with bilateral occipital headache. The patient initially reported phosphenes and one hour later a progressive bilateral amaurosis.

Physical examination
Conscious, bradypsychic, but without alteration in compression or speech, with bilateral threat reflex abolished, dextroversion of the gaze and right cervical rotation. Bilateral amaurosis is evident. Extrinsic ocular motility preserved on verbal command, with no focal signs on examination of the cranial nerves. Strength and sensitivity in all four extremities preserved. No dysmetria or dysdiadochokinesia. Gait not explored, but no meningeal signs.

Complementary tests
A blood test was performed to rule out metabolic disorders, and simultaneously a CT scan of the skull and an assessment by the Neurology Department were urgently requested; however, he suddenly presented with a generalised tonic-clonic seizure requiring 5 mg of diazepam intravenously for control.
CT scan showed bilateral parietooccipital hypodense lesions, with subcortical involvement at the parietal level and corticosubcortical involvement at the occipital level.
The findings were confirmed in a brain MRI, verifying that these lesions were hypointense in T1 sequences and hyperintense in T2 and FLAIR sequences, with no clear restriction of diffusion and no enhancement after contrast. The findings are consistent with the previous suspicion of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome or PRES and, due to their distribution and signal behaviour, they are not suggestive of acute ischaemic lesions. Likewise, no foci of haemorrhage are seen and no suspicious signs of secondary involvement are identified.

Diagnosis
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome in a patient with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma treated with anti PD-L1 combined with antiangiogenics.

Treatment
Given the suspicion of a reversible posterior encephalopathy syndrome, it was decided to optimise blood pressure control with the introduction of intravenous urapidil and treatment was started with levetiracetam. The patient was transferred to the stroke unit for strict haemodynamic monitoring, where she was admitted on 9 February. The doses of corticosteroids administered since admission were also reduced.

Evolution
Good blood pressure control was achieved and treatment with intravenous urapidil was discontinued. The patient progressively recovered bilateral vision with improvement in acuity until it returned to normal two weeks after the start of PRES. She returned to the oncology ward where she needed to progressively introduce antihypertensive drugs to achieve adequate blood pressure control, requiring four drugs (enalapril, amlodipine, labetalol and doxazosin).
After adjustment of the rest of the medication and appropriate hygienic and dietary measures, treatment was maintained with enalapril alone with very good control, and the patient was discharged on 23 February with neurological asymptomatology. Prior to discharge, a control brain MRI was performed, with improvement of the lesions described above, and a thoracoabdominal-pelvic CT scan was performed, which also showed progression of the disease.
