Anamnesis
This is a 79-year-old male, with a known allergic drug reaction to beta-lactams and oxaliplatin, who attended the Emergency Department in August 2017 for a cat bite on the right lower limb; noting serous exudate in the wound, as well as a dystrophic sensation with chills and a home thermometric fever of 39 oC.
During the anamnesis, she reported pleuritic pain in the left field, dyspnoea, expectoration and increased oedema in the lower limbs.
The oncological history began in September 2011, when the patient was diagnosed with native RAS mixed mucinous adenocarcinoma of the colon, with vascular invasion, initially at stage T3N0M0 and treated with surgery. In January 2012, he was diagnosed with liver recurrence, so he started chemotherapy with FOLFOX (leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil and oxaliplatin) + bevacizumab, obtaining a partial response and receiving a total of 33 cycles until December 2013, after which three left hepatic segments were resected due to metastasis. He received subsequent treatment with
5-FU (5-fluorouracil) + bevacizumab x 8 cycles. A computed tomography (CT) scan in October 2014 showed progression with the appearance of bilateral pulmonary nodules, suggestive of metastatic involvement. Treatment was started with FOLFIRI (leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil and irinotecan hydrochloride) + panitumumumab, receiving a total of 5 cycles, with regular tolerance, so it was decided to continue with panitumumumab in monotherapy, treatment that was maintained until July 2016, when, due to new pulmonary progression, it was decided to start a new line of treatment with regorafenib, receiving 6 cycles. In the last CT scan, in February 2017, pulmonary nodules persisted, predominantly in the left hemithorax with areas of cavitation. At the time of ED consultation, chemotherapy treatment had been suspended four months earlier (April 2017), with 3 admissions since then for respiratory infection treated with piperacillin-tazobactam, levofloxacin and meropenem.
After being assessed by the Home Care Support Team (ESAD) in the area for progression despite treatment and worsening of performance status (PS), therapeutic rest had been decided.

Physical examination
Physical examination revealed bilateral perimalleolar oedema on the lower limbs with pitting and punctate wounds on the dorsum of the distal third of the MID, which was warm, slightly erythematous, with serous exudate on application of pressure. Bilateral inguinal adenopathies less than 1 cm in size, of elastic consistency, cold, not adherent to deep planes, are palpated. There were no other significant findings except for hepatomegaly of 2 finger widths of the left hepatic lobe. During cardiopulmonary auscultation, rhythmic heart tones, without murmurs; and preserved vesicular murmur without added noises.

Complementary tests
Blood tests showed leukocytosis (18.20 10 E3/mcl), with 83 % neutrophils, and CRP of 11.0 mg/dl; without significant alterations in the rest of the parameters. A chest X-ray was performed, with no evident changes with respect to the previous ones. In the thoracic CT scan, at the level of the lung parenchyma, opacities of nodular morphology were observed, widely cavitated, which were located in the left upper lobe, while the rest of the already known opacities showed progressive growth. In addition, numerous opacities are also observed in both lung bases. In view of these findings, and taking into account the radiological evolution, a diagnosis of infection by atypical mycobacteria was suggested as a possible diagnosis. A microbiological study was requested, highlighting QuantiFERON® TB positive, as well as incubation in 3 sputa of 50 BAAR/field, without mutation to rifampicin.

Diagnosis
Given the results of the microbiological study, a diagnosis of respiratory infection was made, with a final diagnosis of bacilliferous pulmonary tuberculosis.

Treatment
Based on current treatment recommendations for rifampicin-sensitive Mycobacterium tuberculosis, antibiotic treatment with ethambutol hydrochloride, isoniazid, pyrazinamide and rifampicin was started and continued for at least 6 months.

Evolution
Reviewing images with the Radiology Department from 2014 to the present, given the evolution of the pulmonary nodules and infiltrates, and having been diagnosed with TB, the nature of the pulmonary lesions is not clearly defined. Given that the patient has an active infectious process, no oncological treatment is currently being considered until it is resolved. It should be noted that, at the last review in the Medical Oncology consultation (February 2018), the patient reported improvement in general condition, with no symptoms of dyspnoea, fever, cough or expectoration. He continues to receive antibiotic treatment for tuberculosis. The CT scan performed in November 2017 showed an improvement in the cavitated lesion of the LSI, compared to the previous study, with no signs of recurrence.
