Anamnesis
Patient aged 54 years, smoker of 10 cannabis cigarettes a day, drinker of more than 3L of beer a day and ex-consumer of sniffed drugs in his youth (cocaine, heroin) with a history of chronic hepatitis C genotype 4c 4d, treated, with no response to treatment and no further check-ups due to the patient's wishes. The patient works in construction and hospitality with good functional status with ECOG of 1.
He started a study in December 2014 as a result of chest pain of the prick type together with associated constitutional syndrome. A chest X-ray was requested from his health centre where a 1 cm nodule was seen in the middle of the right lung.
In view of these findings, a chest CT scan was performed, showing multiple bilateral pulmonary nodules, lytic metastasis in the left 6th costal arch and a right renal mass measuring 6x4 cm, without infiltration of vascular structures or perirenal extension, with locoregional adenopathies and a left adrenal mass measuring 4x 5cm.
After discussing the case in the urological tumour committee, it was decided to perform a laparoscopic right nephrectomy, which was carried out in March 2015 with pathological anatomical findings of Fuhrman grade 3 clear cell renal carcinoma with infiltration of the fat in the renal sinus and metastasis in 3 isolated lymph nodes.
He was assessed in our offices in April 2015 and started treatment with Sunitinib 50mg daily for four weeks with two weeks' rest and Zometa.
Due to worsening renal function, asthenia and grade 2 stomatitis, treatment was interrupted in August 2015 and resumed in September at a dose of 37.5mg daily with Denosumab.

A control thoracoabdominal CT scan was performed in September 2015, which showed stabilisation of the disease and treatment was maintained.
In October 2015, the patient attended the emergency department for an episode of temporary disorientation with visual and auditory hallucinations and progressive visual deficit for months in the left eye.

Physical examination
Physical examination revealed hepatomegaly of three finger widths at abdominal level with no other significant alterations.
Neurological findings included bradypsychia with temporal disorientation and blurred vision with left lateralisation without other alterations, with isochoric and normoreactive pupils, without loss of strength or sensitivity at any level and without gait alterations.

Complementary tests
During her stay in the emergency department, the following complementary tests were performed:
- Blood tests: anaemia with Hb of 9 gr/dl and mild hyponatraemia of 134 mEq/L with no other significant alterations.
- CT scan of the brain: lesion in the selar region, with well-defined borders, 20x20 mm in size, extending cranially over the suprasellar cistern, the optimal chiasm and contacting the inferoanterior wall of the III ventricle, producing a discrete mass effect with slight triventriculomegaly, suggesting as a first possibility pituitary macroadenoma versus metastasis.
Two red blood cell concentrates were transfused in the emergency department and the patient was admitted to Medical Oncology to complete the study. During admission the patient worsened clinically, becoming increasingly disorientated with episodes of psychomotor agitation.
An MRI scan of the brain was requested to identify the presence of a selar lesion and to rule out the presence of meningeal carcinomatosis, together with a restaging thoracoabdominal CT scan. A complete hormonal profile was also requested.
- Hormone profile: Free T4 0.54 ng/dl, basal TSH 0.04 uU/mL, LH <0.07 mIU/mL, basal FSH 0.09 mIU/mL, basal PRL 27.5 ng/mL, Testosterone 0.07 ng/mL.
- Brain MRI: Hypothalamic-pituitary mass with extensive oedema in both hypothalamus, internal capsules, midbrain and optic ribbons, which, together with clinical history and the presence of a second lesion in the left cerebellar hemisphere, suggests the possibility of metastasis, without completely ruling out the coexistence of two processes: cerebellar metastasis and pituitary macroadenoma, although the latter seems more improbable. Tetraventricular hydrocephalus with transependymal oedema. No leptomeningeal enhancements were identified, although the possibility of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis cannot be ruled out.
- Thoracoabdominal CT scan: Significant progression of bilateral pulmonary metastases with respect to the previous study, bone and adrenal metastases.

Diagnosis
Pituitary mass of 2.8 cm maximum diameter in probable relation to pituitary macroadenoma versus metastasis in a patient with stage IV clear cell renal carcinoma. Central hypothyroidism in the context. Mild hyperprolactinaemia in probable relation to pituitary stalk compression.
Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.

Treatment
In view of the findings of the complementary tests, assessment by Radiation Oncology and Neurosurgery was requested. After a joint assessment of the case, it was decided to transfer the patient to Neurosurgery for surgery, given the absence of comorbidities, age and good functional situation prior to admission.
He was assessed by the Endocrinology Department and treatment was adjusted by starting treatment with Levothyroxine 100 mcgr every 24 hours, recommending a stress coverage guideline for surgery with dexamethasone or actocortin.
He underwent surgery on 13/11/2015 by craniotomy guided by neuronavigation. He presented intraoperative complication with haemorrhagic shock with hypotension and acute anaemia with Hb 3.2 requiring transfusion of 4 haematite concentrates and volume without identifying a clear bleeding point. After stabilisation of the patient, he was transferred to resuscitation beds.

Evolution
In the days following surgery, the patient became progressively anaemic with the appearance of neurological symptoms not present prior to surgery with left arreactive mydriasis. A post-surgery brain CT scan was performed, showing changes secondary to surgery with no signs of bleeding or other significant alterations.
The results of the pathological anatomy of the surgical specimen showed brain metastasis of clear cell renal carcinoma.
After several days of resuscitation, the patient progressively worsened, with neurological and respiratory deterioration, hypoxaemic with very poor respiratory mechanics, secondary to the significant pulmonary metastatic involvement together with severe hypocalcaemia with ionic calcium levels below 2.
At this time it is considered that given the current situation of the patient and his disease, he does not require aggressive support measures, limiting the therapeutic effort in agreement with the relatives and with the patient's living will.

