Anamnesis
50-year-old woman, recently diagnosed with infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the left breast, locally advanced (cT2N2M0), hormone receptor negative, HER2 negative, proliferation index 70% and nuclear grade III, awaiting treatment. No other history of interest. No drug allergies or usual treatment.

The patient came to the emergency department with a 10-day history of general malaise, muscle weakness and the appearance of skin lesions.

She reported muscle weakness in the proximal region of the upper limbs and, subsequently, also in the lower limbs, with significant functional limitation (inability to raise her arms to comb her hair or climb stairs), together with intense asthenia. The condition was associated with the appearance of erythematous papular lesions on the face, with subsequent dissemination to the décolleté region and dorsum of the right hand. She had not presented fever or other symptoms of probable infectious origin.

Physical examination
Haemodynamically stable. Afebrile. Physical examination revealed a hard, erythematous tumour on the left breast, approximately 4 cm in diameter. Limitation of strength of the proximal muscles of the upper limbs (III-IV/V) and lower limbs (IV/V). The skin showed erythematous-violaceous desquamative lesions in the periocular, frontociliary and nasolabial regions and erythematous-decamative lesions on the neckline and dorsum of the metacarpophalanges of the right hand. There were no nail lesions.

Complementary tests
The patient was admitted to the rheumatology department where the following tests were performed:
"Autoimmunity study: normal immunoglobulins. Rheumatoid factor negative. Anti-CCP negative. Normal C4 and C3. ENAs, ANA, ANOEs, ANCAs, a-DNA, anti-B2GP and anticardiolipin: negative.
"Serology: HIV, HCV, HBV negative. EBV IgG positive. CMV IgG positive (HBV anti-core positive. AgHBbs negative. AcHBs negative).
"Tumour markers: CEA and Ca 15.3 not elevated.
"Thoracic-abdomino-pelvic CT: mixed heterogeneous mass, approximately 4 cm, in the inner quadrants of the left breast. Left axillary adenopathy suggestive of malignancy.
There are no pathological findings at pulmonary, abdominal or pelvic level.
"Transthoracic echocardiogram: no pathological findings.
"Electromyography: minimal denervation of the right deltoid muscle, compatible with inflammatory activity.
"Skin biopsy of the neck region: perianexial and perivascular superficial and deep perivascular lichenoid dermatitis, compatible with dermatomyositis.
"Deltoid muscle biopsy: skeletal muscle with numerous necrotic muscle fibres in various stages of development. Regenerating muscle fibres and isolated mononuclear inflammatory cells are also observed. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) with antibody against histocompatibility antigen type 1 shows immunostaining at the periphery of some fibres. The alterations are compatible with an inflammatory myopathy.

Diagnosis
Paraneoplastic dermatomyositis.

Treatment
Treatment was started with high doses of corticosteroid, prednisone 60 mg per day, with some improvement of the symptoms. Given the high possibility that the symptoms corresponded to paraneoplastic dermatomyositis, it was decided to start specific neoadjuvant treatment for his oncological disease with paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 and carboplatin AUC6 during admission.

Evolution
Given her clinical stability, the patient was discharged for continuation of outpatient treatment at the Medical Oncology department, where she was treated with 12 cycles of carboplatin AUC6 and paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 followed by four cycles of doxorubucin 60 mg/m2 and cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 with excellent tolerance and complete resolution of the paraneoplastic symptoms. CK values normalised two weeks after the start of corticosteroid and chemotherapy treatment.

Breast MRI, performed after completion of neoadjuvant treatment, shows a major partial response with an 11 mm tumour and a small residual left axillary lymphadenopathy.
The patient is currently awaiting surgery for the breast tumour.
