Anamnesis
56-year-old woman, active smoker until diagnosis, with a cumulative tobacco consumption of 20 pack-years. In January 2016, she began with clinical manifestations of cough with purulent expectoration without fever, orthopnoea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea, initially treated as a respiratory infection with bronchodilators and antibiotics.
She presented with a poor clinical evolution with the measures implemented, so she went to the emergency department of her referral hospital on 9 February 2018 due to severe dyspnoea.
After diagnosis of SVCS secondary to a large right supra-hilar mass, respiratory superinfection and global respiratory failure with acidosis requiring ventilatory support, she was transferred urgently to the Pneumology Department of our centre for non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NIV), study of the mass and specific treatment.
The following morning, Anatomical Pathology was contacted, who biopsied the supraclavicular adenopathic block, histologically confirming microcytic lung carcinoma.

Physical examination
BP 128/72 mm Hg. HR 120 bpm. O2 Sat. O2 97% with oxygen therapy with NIV with FiO2 50%. Conscious, oriented and cooperative. Poor peripheral perfusion, with lividity and acral cyanosis. Significant respiratory work, with tachypnoea and use of accessory muscles. Large right supraclavicular lymphadenopathy, stony in consistency, fixed to deep planes. Pulmonary auscultation with scattered rhonchi and left base crackles. Cardiac auscultation with rhythmic heart sounds.
Lower extremities without oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.

Complementary tests
"Biochemistry: sodium, potassium, urea and creatinine normal, creatine kinase 186 U/l, troponin I 6.1 ng/l, CRP 32.54 mg/dl.
"Haemoglobin 15.7 g/dl, platelets 252,000/mcl, leukocytes 23,000/mcl, 87% polymorphonuclear.
"Coagulation: prothrombin rate 50 %.
"Baseline arterial blood gases: pO2 25.4 mm Hg, pCO2 70.7 mm Hg, SatO2 43.6 %, pH 7.287.
"Control blood gases with NIV: pO2 138 mm Hg, pCO2 55.2 mm Hg, pH 7.38, base excess 3.2, bicarbonate 29 mmol/l.
"Electrocardiogram: sinus tachycardia at 120 bpm.
"Portable chest X-ray: alveolar infiltrate in the left lung base, with air bronchogram, suggestive of pulmonary consolidation. Right supra-hilar mass.
"Chest CT scan: large right supra-hilar mass infiltrating the mediastinal structures extending to the contralateral side and towards the supraclavicular region, with infracarinal, bilateral hilar and right axillary lymphadenopathies in pathological range, all suggestive of primary lung neoplasia. Cavitated mass in the right upper lobe and pulmonary nodules in the left upper lobe, suggestive of metastasis. Alveolar-like infiltrates with areas of consolidation in the left lower lobe and lingula, as well as in the middle lobe, of probable acute inflammatory-infectious origin. Abundant collateral circulation in the left costal and perivertebral wall, secondary to collapse of the inferior vena cava by the previously described mass.
"Fine needle aspiration of the lesion in the right supraclavicular region: small cell neuroendocrine lung carcinoma (microcytic carcinoma).

Diagnosis
Superior vena cava syndrome secondary to small cell lung carcinoma, extensive disease due to supraclavicular involvement extending to the cervical and axillary region.

Treatment
After the biopsy was performed by Anatomical Pathology, Radiotherapy Oncology was contacted, who administered a flash of 8 Gy of decompressive radiotherapy on the hilar lesion, and Medical Oncology, who, after histological confirmation of microcytic lung carcinoma, prescribed the first cycle of carboplatin 4 AUC + etoposide 80 mg/m2 (at 80% dose intensity and avoiding cisplatin due to the patient's poor general condition), as a matter of urgency. Total dose for a body surface area of 1.5 m2: carboplatin 500 mg iv day 1 + etoposide 120 mg iv days 1, 2 and 3.

Evolution
The patient remained in the Pneumology Department with progressive improvement in general condition and less dependence on non-invasive mechanical ventilation, which was withdrawn and she was discharged after 14 days in hospital, without requiring home oxygen therapy. During admission, a CT scan of the skull, thorax and abdomen was performed, which showed a slight reduction in the mediastinal mass (7 days after treatment was started).
On an outpatient basis, a PET-CT scan was performed which showed local and distant metastatic lymph node involvement, as well as a hypermetabolic retroperitoneal lesion suggestive of metastasis.
The patient came to the outpatient clinic on the date of the second cycle reporting dyspnoea and productive cough, with leukocytosis and neutrophilia in the blood tests, requiring hospital admission again due to respiratory failure. Due to suspicion of respiratory infection of nosocomial origin, oxygen therapy and broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment was started. In view of the poor evolution in the following hours, he contacted Pneumology and it was decided to perform non-invasive mechanical ventilation until radiological re-evaluation of the disease.
A CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed a decrease in the size of the mediastinal and right hilar mass, but as a consequence necrosis with destruction of the right tracheal wall was observed, which communicated with a 4 cm air cavity, which fistulae to a peripheral cavitation of 5 cm. There is also a response of two pulmonary nodules, with cavitation and the presence of a hydro-aerial level inside. The appearance of airspace consolidation with bronchogram in the right lower lobe and multiple centrolobular nodules and a tree-shaped pattern in outbreak, predominantly in the lower lobes, compatible with an associated infectious-inflammatory process.
Given the poor short-term prognosis due to the alterations presented in the CT scan and the physical suffering of the patient despite the measures put in place, NIV was withdrawn and palliative sedation was started, and the patient finally died.
