Anamnesis
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have been a revolution in the treatment of patients with EGFR-mutated non-small cell lung cancer. However, their use is not without risks, some of them life-threatening.
Here we present the case of a 64-year-old woman with depressive syndrome being treated with venlafaxine, mirtazapine and diazepam as the only personal history of interest. She has no toxic habits and is independent in basic activities of daily living, lives with her husband and leads an active life. She has no family history of interest.
The patient consulted the gastroenterology department in October 2007 for non-specific epigastric pain. She denies respiratory symptoms, constitutional syndrome or any other additional symptoms.

Physical examination
Physical examination revealed only mild pain on palpation in the epigastrium, with no other significant findings.

Complementary tests
- Complete blood analysis and gastroscopy (October 2007): no alterations.
- Chest X-ray (October 2007): solitary pulmonary nodule in the left lower lobe.
With this finding, she was referred to Pneumology, where the study was completed with:
- Thoracoabdominal CT scan (November 2007): pathological nodule in segment 6 of the left lower lobe, measuring 2.8 x 3.2 cm, associated with ipsilateral hilar lymph nodes, with no other relevant alterations.
- Respiratory function tests (November 2007): small airway obstruction pattern.
- Bronchoscopy (January 2008): extrinsic compression in left segment 6.
- Cytology and transbronchial biopsy (January 2008): no evidence of tumour infiltration.
- Mycobacterial culture (January 2008): negative.
Close follow-up was decided and a new chest CT scan was performed at the beginning of April 2008, where the nodule in the left lower lobe remained stable, but slight left hilar adenopathic progression was observed, as well as the appearance of a left paraesophageal adenopathy. On 18 April 2008, a left lower lobectomy and lymphadenectomy by videothoracoscopy were performed without postoperative complications.
The pathological anatomy was reported as poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of pulmonary origin of 1.6 cm, with infiltration of visceral pleura and vascular invasion as poor prognostic factors.

Diagnosis
Adenocarcinoma of lung origin in the left lower lobe UICC stage pT2aN0M0 (IB).

Treatment
After surgery she was referred to the Medical Oncology Department. As this was a localised stage, adjuvant treatment was rejected as there was no benefit for the patient.

Evolution
In the first re-evaluation thoracoabdominal CT scan (September 2008), mediastinal and pleural lymph node involvement was observed (left pleural implants and pleural effusion). The relapse was confirmed by cytology of the pleural fluid, which was positive for adenocarcinoma of pulmonary origin, and we are currently at UICC stage cTxcN2pM1 (stage IV). Pleurodesis was performed and systemic treatment was started with intravenous cisplatin 75 mg/m2 on day 1 and intravenous gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8 every 21 days, receiving 6 cycles between September 2008 and January 2009. Adverse effects included grade 3 nausea and vomiting, grade 2 diarrhoea and grade 1 asthenia (for which the dose was reduced to 80% from the 2nd cycle onwards) and grade 2 febrile neutropenia (forcing a one-week delay in the administration of the 6th cycle). An almost complete response was achieved except for residual pleural implants, so he began follow-up with check-ups. A thoracoabdominal CT scan in June 2009 showed tumour progression at the mediastinal and pleural levels and in infradiaphragmatic ganglion chains in the upper abdomen (retrocrural and gastrohepatic ligament). It was decided to start treatment within the SCAT clinical trial, receiving 3 cycles of trabectedin 1.5 mg/m2 day 1 every 21 days between July 2009 and August 2009. The only adverse effect was asthenia grade 1. He left the trial due to adenopathic progression at the mediastinal, axillary and upper retroperitoneal levels, as well as implants in the left pectoral, pleura, left adrenal, left paravertebral musculature and right iliac bone.
EGFR study was requested, with the result of EGFR mutated, so in September 2009 she started treatment with erlotinib 150 mg per day. Toxicity was diarrhoea and grade 2 skin rash, nasal mucositis and mild nail alterations. In the first CAT scan re-evaluation after 3 months, a complete radiological response was observed, which was maintained in subsequent check-ups.
On 14 April 2012, the patient attended the emergency department for dyspnoea, pleuritic pain in the left hemithorax, dry cough and fever of up to 38oC for a week. Angiography ruled out acute pulmonary thromboembolism. Imaging tests showed extensive patchy areas of ground glass with areas of fibrosis predominantly in the lower lobes, not visible on previous CT scans. Despite nebulisations with ipratropium bromide and salbutamol, oxygen therapy and high-dose corticotherapy (on suspicion that the symptoms were a side effect of the treatment), piperacillin-tazobactam and voriconazole (due to the possibility that the infiltrates were fungal in origin), the patient progressed unfavourably, with a progressive increase in respiratory involvement until she died on 28 April 2012.
The post-mortem examination revealed severe morphological changes in the lungs compatible with evolved diffuse alveolar damage together with foci with a pattern of bronchiolitis obliterans/organised pneumonia in the absence of specific signs of infection, carcinomatous lymphangitis or cardiogenic pulmonary oedema. The pulmonary alterations referred to have been described in the literature in association with erlotinib treatment and are considered, in this case, to be the fundamental cause of death.

