Anamnesis
55-year-old female patient with no medical or surgical history of interest. She was not taking chronic treatment. She was a menopausal woman, housewife and mother of two healthy children. The patient had no family history of neoplasms, nor did she report exposure to toxins or chemicals related to an increased incidence of neoplasms. For 4 months, the patient had been under study for progressive left coxalgia refractory to first- and second-step analgesics. The woman had recently undergone a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan, which had not yet been assessed in the doctor's office, showing a tumour-like lesion affecting the proximal femoral diaphysis of the left leg and soft tissues.
The patient consulted her referral hospital for a sudden high intensity headache of 4 hours' duration, accompanied by poor general condition and vomiting. Initially, the neurological examination was unremarkable. Due to these symptoms, a cranial computed tomography (CT) scan was performed, showing intraparenchymal bleeding compatible with brain metastasis. For this reason, the patient was transferred to the neurosurgery department of our hospital and, once admitted, a consultation was made.

Physical examination
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Scale: 3. Karnofsky Scale: 50. Orientation only in person. Bradybalic. Cranial nerves preserved. Rest of neurological examination with no findings. No palpable adenopathies were found in the otorhinolaryngological examination. Cardiac, respiratory and abdominal examination was uneventful. On examination of the lower limbs, a mass measuring 9-10 centimetres (cm) in maximum length, hard, fixed to deep planes and painless, was palpable in the proximal third of the left hind limb.

Complementary tests
"Serial laboratory tests on 9 and 19 May: alkaline phosphatase: normal. LDH: 312 and 404 U/l.
"X-ray of the femur: hyperinflation of the cortical cortex and "onion layer" image in the middle third of the left femur.
"Chest X-ray: bilateral pulmonary hyperintense nodular images in "balloon release".
"CT of extremities: intramedullary lytic lesion in the proximal third of the left femoral diaphysis (7.3 cm) with hyperdense material. Posterior (0.9 cm) and medial (0.8 cm) cortical disruption.
"Endosteal remodelling. Periosteal thickening in onion layers. Soft tissue mass (11 x 7.5 cm) in adductor and crural musculature.
"Percutaneous core needle biopsy (CNB): soft tissue biopsy 9 x 9 x 12 cm left parostal.
"MRI of the brain with contrast: right temporal haemorrhagic lesion (2.8 cm) and left occipital haemorrhagic lesion (3.5 cm). Left parietooccipital leptomeningeal nodule capturing 1 cm. Left subdural and tentorial haematoma.
"Soft tissue biopsy: large conglomerate of round or spindle cells with abundant mitoses. Large areas of necrosis are observed. Scanty osteoid in interstitial space. Immunohistochemistry: SATB2 positive. Conclusion: High grade small cell osteosarcoma.

Diagnosis
Small cell osteosarcoma (Hutter's) stage IV (brain and lung involvement).

Treatment
First line of polychemotherapy with cisplatin and adriamycin.

Evolution
At the start of admission, supportive treatment with corticosteroids, serotherapy, first and third step analgesia was started. Complete tumour staging and biopsy of the thigh lesion were performed. During the first days of admission, he presented progressive deterioration with a marked fluctuation in the level of consciousness, mixed aphasia and vertiginous syndrome with peripheral characteristics, which was stabilised by optimising medical treatment.
Once the diagnosis was made, the patient was discussed in the Tumour Committee, which decided on first-line treatment with a polychemotherapy scheme based on cisplatin and adriamycin. Brain surgery and holocranial radiotherapy were initially rejected.
The patient showed initial neurological improvement. Shortly afterwards, the patient again showed progressive deterioration with akathisia as the main symptom. Despite conservative measures, the patient did not improve and so, with the joint decision of the family, treatment aimed at symptom control was decided upon. The patient died on the 14th day of admission with no signs of suffering.
