Anamnesis
A 59-year-old man with no drug allergies. Ex-smoker with a pack-year index (PPI) of 15 and active ethylism. Morbid obesity and arterial hypertension. History of liver transplant in 2014 for alcoholic cirrhosis, currently on immunosuppressive treatment with everolimus.

Oncological history
The patient debuted in 2014 with a hepatic lesion in segment V-VIII suggestive of hepatocarcinoma. He underwent surgery and the pathology study suggested metastasis of adenocarcinoma, with positive cytokeratin 7 and negative for CD10 and hepatocyte. He was then followed up with six-monthly computed tomography (CT) scans. In the thoracoabdominal CT scan (May/2017): two pulmonary nodules, one in the left upper lobe (LSI) and one in the right upper lobe (LSD), which had grown with respect to the previous CT scan. In November/2017, biopsy of the LSI nodule was frustrated due to its small size and poor accessibility.
In September 2018, both lesions were successfully biopsied. The LSI nodule showed metastasis of cholangiocarcinoma, while the LSD nodule showed cellular atypia of uncertain significance.
With the diagnosis of pulmonary metastases from cholangiocarcinoma, the alternatives, chemotherapy versus best supportive care, as well as the desirability of alcohol withdrawal and adjustment of immunosuppressive therapy, were explained to the patient. After expressing his desire for active oncological treatment and taking into account that he is an immunosuppressed patient due to a transplant, gemcitabine was started in February/2019 at a dose of 1,000 mg/m2 biweekly with the intention of associating cisplatin if there was good tolerance. She presented thrombopenia and grade 3 neutropenia after the 1st cycle, so no treatment was given on day 15 and platinum was not considered. She continued from the 2nd cycle with doses reduced by 20% and received the 4th cycle in May 2019.
Four days later, she presented with diarrhoea associated with pre-renal renal failure and required hospital admission on 09/05/2019. During hospitalisation, the result of the stool culture was obtained: Campylobacter jejuni, for which he was kept on antibiotic treatment for 10 days and the diarrhoea resolved, presenting clinical improvement and he was discharged.

Current history
He came to the emergency department on 24/05/2019 referred from his local hospital with a suspected diagnosis of spinal cord compression versus brain metastasis. The patient began to experience progressive loss of strength, mainly in the lower limbs (MMII), over a period of 4 days, which prevented him from walking and even standing upright, extending to the upper limbs (MMSS). She showed no sensory deficit. In view of this condition, 1 dose of corticosteroid (8 mg IV dexamethasone) was administered and he was transferred to our hospital.

Physical examination
ECOG 2. Orientation in the three spheres. Good level of consciousness. Preserved higher functions. Divergent strabismus already known since childhood (denies diplopia), normal eye movements, no campimetric defects by confrontation. Facial centred, normal lower pairs (symmetrical palatal pillars, uvula centred, XII pair without alterations). Symmetrical distal predominant tetraparesis with greater involvement of MMII. Muscle balance, in MMSS: 4/5 proximal and 2/5 distal; MMII: 1/5 proximal and 1/5 distal. Lassegue positive and bilateral. No sensory involvement. Universal arreflexia. Indifferent cutaneous plantar reflex (CPR). No dorsolumbar pain.

Complementary tests
"CBC: normal haemogram, biochemistry and coagulation (except fibrinogen 887).
"Chest X-ray: pulmonary nodules already described in previous reports.
"Emergency cranioencephalic CT scan: no pathological findings.

Diagnosis
Acute demyelinating polyradiculopathy or Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) in an immunosuppressed patient with a history of Campylobacter jejuni infection. He was classified as the subtype of GBS: acute axonal motor neuropathy (AMAN).

Treatment
He was admitted for treatment with IV immunoglobulins and was under close surveillance due to the possibility of disease progression and respiratory muscle involvement.

Evolution
Lumbar puncture was performed, obtaining cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with anodyne characteristics (without albumin-cytological dissociation). However, the picture is highly suggestive of demyelinating polyradiculopathy (tetraparesis with universal areflexia, preceded by Campylobacter jejuni infection), and without data suggesting spinal cord injury since there is no sensory level.
Neurophysiological studies were completed (29/05/2019) with electromyography (EMG) and electroneurography (ENG), which were compatible with acute axonal polyradiculoneuritis with a clear motor predominance.
The patient was treated for 5 days with IV immunoglobulins, the evolution was slow but favourable, with progressive increase in muscle strength.
