Anamnesis
36-year-old woman, active smoker of 5 pack-years, immigrant: exposed to the Chernobyl accident. Consulted in April 2017 for sudden dyspnoea and right pleuritic chest pain.

Physical examination
On physical examination, an ECOG 1 stands out, and the rest with no other findings.

Complementary tests
Laboratory tests showed no relevant findings.
Chest X-ray: cavitated nodular lesion in LID.
Chest CT angiography: bilateral PET. Cavitated mass in the apical segment of the LID measuring 3.2 cm. Bilateral paratracheal adenopathies, in aortopulmonary window and bilateral hilar adenopathies.
Bronchoscopy: normal with brushing and BAS negative for malignancy.
PET/CT: hypermetabolic lesion in LID. Hypermetabolic right and left lower paratracheal hypermetabolic adenopathies, bilateral aortopulmonary, subcarinal and hilar window. Multiple retroperitoneal hypermetabolic retroperitoneal lymphadenopathies.
Tru-cut biopsy of the lung mass showed infiltration by adenocarcinoma of micropapillary pattern TTF1 +++, PD-L1 (Ac 22C3) negative, with strong immunohistochemical expression of ALK consistent with translocation protein expression.
Native EGFR.

Diagnosis
It is therefore diagnosed as a lung adenocarcinoma cT2aN3M1c (8th TNM edition) carrying the ALK translocation.

Treatment
First-line treatment with crizotinib was initiated in July 2017 at a daily dose of 250 mg every 12 hours. Partial response was confirmed on abdominal thoracic CT scan according to RECIST 1.1 criteria and complete metabolic response on PET/CT scan at 8 weeks.

Evolution
From the start of treatment, the patient presented with grade 1-2 nausea associated, at week 15, with grade 1 emesis. In November 2017, after 19 weeks, she consulted for progressive dysphagia of 15 days' duration accompanied by central thoracic pain. An urgent gastroscopy was performed, which revealed a diffuse greyish oesophageal mucosa with raised areas at various levels. Oesophageal biopsy showed oesophageal epithelium with destruction of the basal layer, with no fungi or viral inclusions. With the diagnosis of G3 oesophagitis secondary to treatment with crizotinib, treatment was suspended and the patient was admitted to hospital for supportive care. The evolution was favourable, with symptomatic improvement on the fourth day; however, on the tenth day there was a worsening of symptoms consisting of abdominal pain at the epigastric level, which did not respond to analgesic treatment despite the progressive increase in the dose of opioids prescribed. Physical examination was unremarkable.
