Anamnesis
We present the case of a 60-year-old patient with no known drug allergies whose most important personal history was an admission to the Pneumology Department for left pleural empyema and heart failure. As toxic habits the patient was an ex-smoker (IPA = 80 up to 12 years ago), exenolism up to 12 years ago. He was a mining worker.
The study began when he came to the emergency department for right rib pain with a pulmonary mass found on X-ray. The study was completed with a computed tomography (CT) scan which showed a mass measuring 60 x 53 x 80 mm infiltrating the bronchus of the posterior segment of the right upper lobe (LSD) and invading the minor fissure and extending to segment six of the right lower lobe (LID), contacting the right posterosuperior pleura. There was also an extrapleural lymph node measuring 9 mm and a spiculated satellite nodule in the apical segment of the LSD measuring 10 x 6 mm and two nodules in segment 6 of the LID measuring 10 mm and 8 mm. In addition, there were lymphadenopathies at the origin of the right brachiocephalic trunk, right upper paratracheal chain, subcarinal and aortopulmonary window suspicious of metastasis, pericardial effusion and loculated right pleural effusion.

Physical examination
Relatively good general condition, but functionally limited by severe low back pain (Visual Analogue Scale [VAS] 8-9) with decreased strength in both lower limbs (4/5) and with great difficulty in standing upright, with no impairment of reflexes or sensation.

Complementary tests
The study was completed with a PET-CT scan showing a hypermetabolic mass measuring 7.8 x 7.7 cm (standardised uptake value [SUV] 9.6) in the upper segment of the LID. Right bronchopulmonary adenopathies (SUV 4.3 and 3.8), and multiple pathological bone uptakes in the right posterior 4th costal arch, left anterior 5th, right 7th at the level of the angle, L3 vertebral body, left iliac blade, left sacroiliac joint and left ileopubic branch.
Fibrobronchoscopy was performed and showed extrinsic compression of the bronchus of the apical segment of the LSD. Anatomical pathology (AP) was negative for malignancy. Therefore, to complete the study, EBUS was performed on the adenopathies of stations 2R (right), 4L (left) and 7 which were positive for poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (2R and 7).

Diagnosis
The case was presented to the multidisciplinary committee and referred to our clinic with the diagnosis: lung adenocarcinoma T4N2M1b (bone).

Treatment
It was decided to admit the patient to Oncology for analgesia and to start treatment. Given the symptoms of functional impotence, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan was requested, which showed metastatic vertebral dissemination with fractures of most of the vertebral bodies due to compression, as well as a craniocaudal fracture of the L3 vertebral body with displacement of the posterior wall causing compression of the cauda equina.
He started treatment with chemotherapy scheme carboplatin area under the curve (5-AUC), total dose 700 mg and paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 (287 mg), with usual premedication consisting of: granisetron 1 mg, dexamethasone 12 mg, dexchlorpheniramine 5 mg, ranitidine 50 mg, and subsequent antiemesis: dexamethasone, granisetron, metoclopramide, which passed without incident. On discharge, the patient presented a minimal sacral abrasion, which was attributed to bed rest.

Evolution
She attended the emergency department one week after chemotherapy administration due to fever and the appearance of blistering lesions on the buttocks, sacrum and left forearm.
Physical examination
Haemodynamically stable: Blood pressure 111/60 mm Hg, heart rate 86 bpm, 36.3 oC, 88 % oxygen saturation.
Erosive lesions secondary to blisters on lateral left thigh, left forearm, left leg and buttock/sacrum. The lesions presented with spontaneous rupture and drainage of serous contents.
Analysis on admission showed only a sodium level of 126 and a discrete leukocytosis with left shift (leukocytes 11,700, neutrophils 11,500), grade 1 anaemia (haemoglobin 11.7) and a prothrombin activity of 74 %.
With suspicion of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN)/Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) with suspected drug toxicity, he was admitted to Oncology for study and treatment.
During admission to the ward he was assessed by plastic surgery and dermatology, cultures and skin biopsies were taken which were positive for Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus.
Anatomical Pathology
"Skin fragment with dermoepidermal necrosis, ulceration of the entire epidermis.
"Discrete perivascular and interstitial neutrophilic dermatitis, superficial (predominantly) and deep, with ulceration of the epidermis and haematic extravasation.
On suspicion of toxic epidermal necrolysis secondary to chemotherapy or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), the latter were discontinued without improvement in the patient.
The subject presented a progressive worsening with leukocytosis and plateletopenia and finally the patient required palliative sedation due to poor pain control, dying only two weeks after the start of chemotherapy treatment.

