Anamnesis
Female, 56 years old.

Family history: father with prostate cancer.

Personal history: allergy to inzitan, appendectomy, hysterectomy for myomas.

The patient was followed up by dermatology in 2008 for a pink, hyperkeratotic lesion located in the left supragluteal region, the result of the biopsy being clonal seborrhoeic keratosis. The lesion became ulcerative, so in July 2013 a biopsy was performed again, which was diagnostic of eccrine pororcarcinoma in the lumbar region. She had to undergo surgery on up to four occasions due to locoregional recurrences, the last time in March 2015 with left inguinal emptying with metastasis of porocarcinoma in 6/12 adenopathies. Subsequent PET/CT scan detected local relapse and lymph node metastases at bilateral iliac, right inguinal and presacral levels. It was considered unresectable due to lymph node involvement and new lesions appeared in the graft area. The patient was referred to the oncology department and it was decided to start chemotherapy treatment.

Physical examination
At the time of diagnosis and assessment by Oncology:
Good general condition. Conscious, oriented, cooperative. Maintained constant values.
Ulcerated and exudative skin lesions with the presence of lethals in the left supragluteal region.


Complementary tests
PET/CT scan in April 2015 showing local relapse and lymph node metastases in bilateral iliac, right inguinal and presacral regions.
Re-evaluation CT scan in August 2015 with partial response.
CT scan in May 2016 with complete response.
Laboratory tests.

Diagnosis
The patient was diagnosed with eccrine porocarcinoma in 2013 after biopsy of the lesions in the supragluteal region, receiving up to four surgical interventions to remove the tumour. Advanced disease was diagnosed by PET/CT in April 2015.

Treatment
The patient underwent surgery with enlarged margins on up to four occasions by the Dermatology Department, and in January 2015 she underwent left inguinal emptying for adeopathies by the General Surgery Department. Oncology initially administered 6 cycles of taxotere. On follow-up in consultation and once tumour progression was observed, taxotere was started in conjunction with radiotherapy, which was intended to be palliative. When the radiodermatitis lesions became considerably serious due to cellulitis complications, chemotherapy was suspended and antibiotic treatment (clindamycin and moxifloxacin) was administered together with local treatment until the infection was remitted and the lesions progressed well.

Evolution
The patient began treatment in June 2015 with taxotere, completing 6 cycles in August 2015 with a partial response. In November 2015, tumour progression was observed in the skin and she received palliative radiotherapy concomitant with taxotere. In February 2016, she presented skin lesions compatible with radiodermatitis, which was complicated by cellulitis in April 2016. It was decided to interrupt chemotherapy until the lesions resolved. These lesions were treated on an outpatient basis with clindamycin, moxifloxacin and local dressings in the day hospital. The patient experienced a good evolution of the dermal lesions within a week. She is currently being followed up in the oncology department, free of treatment and with good evolution of the dermal lesions. The tumour is currently in complete response according to the latest CAT scan, and without lymph node disease.
