A 12 year old girl presented with dizziness and instability for 24 hours, with a sensation of spinning of objects for hours. Otalgia on the left and otorrhoea on the left. Fever of 38.5oC. Nausea and vomiting. Holocranial headache without photophobia or phonophobia. On treatment with Augmentine for 3 days. On examination, Otoscopy OD, normal OI, hyperemic tympanum with microperforation draining purulent content. There was no evidence of pabellar detachment or mastoid reaction. No spontaneous or gaze-evoked nystagmus, positive left MOC Romberg, Fukuda with left lateralisation. Laboratory tests: leukocytosis with neutrophilia. Urgent CT scan of the chest (images will be attached) was carried out and reported as: acute left otomastoiditis, complicated with petrosal apicitis and acute focal thrombosis of the sigmoid venous sinus, ipsilateral (with signs suggestive of meningitis, in the left hemitentorium). A sample was taken for otorrhoea culture. A lumbar puncture was also performed, ruling out meningitis (glucose 58, proteins 10, leucocytes 1). Under local anaesthesia and sedation, myringotomy was performed with aspiration of purulent contents and placement of transtympanic drainage, as well as administration of intravenous antibiotics (vancomycin, ceftacidime and metronidazole). In principle, heparin was not administered as the child was being studied for thrombophilias and the paediatricians, assessing the risk/benefit, preferred not to administer it. The otic exudate culture was positive for Streptococcus pyogenes sensitive to penicillin, and the same was prescribed. After 4 days the patient did not evolve correctly, continuing to drain purulent content, with headache and unstable. For all these reasons, it was decided to request an urgent MRI (images will be attached) which showed acute left otomastoiditis complicated with cerebellitis, meningitis and focal thrombosis of the sigmoid venous sinus. Given what was observed in the MRI, urgent surgery was decided for mastoidectomy, closure of spontaneous CSF fistula and antiobiotic change to Cefotaxime 2g every 8 hours. Images of the surgery will be attached, and the surgery will be explained.

Evolution: One week after surgery, the patient is asymptomatic. No headache or dizziness and no otorrhoea, so it was decided to discharge her from hospital. Two months later, the patient attended an outpatient examination and was found to be asymptomatic, with her DTT in situ and permeable, with MRI with post-surgical changes of left otomastoiditis without signs of cerebellitis, meningitis with total repermeabilisation of the thrombosis of the sigmoid sinus.
