Anamnesis
61-year-old female, ex-smoker with a pack-year index of 10, with no other personal or family history of interest. She started the study in October 2015, after a routine blood test showed an alteration in the liver profile. The patient was initially asymptomatic, developing jaundice as the only sign of the disease during the study.

Physical examination
On physical examination, she was haemodynamically stable, with good general condition.
Conjunctival jaundice was present. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was normal. Abdomen was not painful on deep palpation, with no masses or visceromegaly. Lower limbs without alterations. No palpable adenopathies or other noteworthy findings.

Complementary tests
Admission to the Digestive Department was requested for a study. Laboratory tests showed bilirubin 2.4 mg/dl, AST 729 U/l, ALT 1286 U/l, GGT 1,848 U/l, negative serology for hepatotropic viruses and Ca 19.9 of 77 U/ml.
Imaging tests included an abdominal ultrasound (02/10/2015), which showed thickening of the pancreatic head with a hypoechogenic area of 3, 5 cm and dilatation of intra- and extrahepatic bile ducts and a chest-abdomen-pelvis computed tomography (CT-CTAP) (14/10/2015) which showed an ill-defined pancreatic head lesion, encompassing superior mesenteric artery and vein and spleno-porto-mesenteric axis together with multiple unspecific pulmonary micronodules. Upper endoscopy was performed suggesting infiltration of the superior mesenteric artery and vein, and a sample of the pancreatic lesion was taken.
The biopsy was non-diagnostic, as was a second biopsy also performed by echoendoscopy, so a surgical biopsy was finally performed by laparoscopy on 23/11/2015. The anatomopathological diagnosis was well-differentiated pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
With regard to the pulmonary nodules, an aetiological study was performed to rule out autoimmune or infectious diseases and/or distant dissemination of the disease, including bronchoscopy with lavage and transbronchial biopsy, without reaching a diagnosis. In the absence of any other cause, despite negative biopsy results, they were assumed to be metastatic.
Due to bile duct obstruction, biliary stenting was performed by interventional radiology.

Diagnosis
With a diagnosis of metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, cT4 Nx M1, stage IV, she was referred to medical oncology for evaluation of systemic treatment.

Treatment
She started 1st line treatment with FOLFIRINOX, completing 15 cycles with good tolerance except for grade 1 neurotoxicity, and sustained afebrile neutropenia that made it necessary to delay treatment on several occasions, so oxaliplatin was finally withdrawn after the 10th cycle (2). Re-evaluation tests showed a partial response of the pancreatic lesion with no changes in the pulmonary micronodules and a negative tumour marker, and therefore, considering that pulmonary disease could not be confirmed, the case was assessed by the multidisciplinary committee and it was decided to perform external irradiation by intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) with a dose of 60 Grey (Gy) on the primary tumour and 49.8 Gy on the draining lymph node areas with concomitant chemotherapy treatment with capecitabine (825 mg/m2/12 h for 28 days), ending in October 2016.

Evolution
In November 2016, pulmonary progression with Ca 19.9 elevation was observed. The study of lung involvement was repeated with bronchoscopy without being able to histologically demonstrate metastatic involvement and, again, with negative tests for autoimmune and infectious diseases.
Given the good response and tolerance to previous treatment, it was decided to restart treatment with FOLFIRI, having interrupted it in a situation of disease control. After 9 cycles, in April 2017, new pulmonary progression was observed and treatment with gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel was started, with stable disease and a decrease in the marker after 3 cycles. After the 4th cycle, nab-paclitaxel was discontinued due to grade 3 distal sensory neuropathy, continuing with gemcitabine monotherapy until completing 9 cycles.
In February 2018, a further worsening of bilateral pulmonary metastatic involvement was observed with further dilatation of the duct of Wirsung, suggesting radiological worsening. As the patient was clinically asymptomatic, she started treatment with FOLFOX again after improvement of the neuropathy to grade 1 in the previous months, starting with lower doses of oxaliplatin to assess tolerance to it.
In March 2018, after completing 2 cycles of treatment with good tolerance, without neurotoxicity, she visited the emergency department for dyspnoea on moderate exertion and fever. Physical examination revealed crackles in both lung bases and saturation of 85% without oxygen therapy. Laboratory tests showed no abnormalities, with no elevation of acute phase reactants. An urgent CT scan of the lung parenchyma showed a similar number and distribution of multiple bilateral nodular lesions, associated with a ground-glass pattern, especially in the bases where areas of consolidation had appeared bilaterally, initially suggestive of infectious-inflammatory changes or drug toxicity.
Treatment was started empirically with meropenem and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, as well as antifungal and corticosteroid treatment due to possible toxicity of the chemotherapy. Bronchoscopy was performed with sampling for microbiological cultures, which were negative. Bronchoalveolar lavage showed an inverted CD4/CD8 and a high percentage of neutrophils. In addition, a biopsy was performed, with a positive result for adenocarcinoma of pancreatic origin.
During admission, she showed progressive improvement. She was assessed by the Infectious Medicine department, who recommended withdrawal of antibiotics, considering the suspicion of an infectious aetiology to be low. From the oncological point of view, despite this being the first time that a positive result for adenocarcinoma had been obtained in the bronchial biopsy, it was considered unlikely that the acute consolidating and interstitial changes were secondary to tumour progression and it was decided to continue with steroid treatment with a presumptive diagnosis of pharmacological toxicity.
The patient was receiving treatment with corticosteroids in a descending dosage until they were completely withdrawn, with marked clinical improvement, and is currently without dyspnoea, cough or respiratory insufficiency.

