A 62-year-old patient consulted because, after the appearance of a boil on the nasal tip 4 days earlier, initially treated with topical mupirocin, he began with progressive redness and pain on the nasal tip. Two days before admission, due to worsening clinical symptoms and the onset of fever (38o), she was prescribed treatment with oral cloxacillin, at a dose of 500 mg/6 hours. The patient was admitted to the emergency department for no improvement. Her medical history included only the presence of high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss, secondary to the A1555G mutation of the MTRNR1 gene. Clinical examination revealed oedema and erythema of the nasal tip and intense pain on palpation. The upper inner part of the nasal vestibule showed the presence of a boil.

The rest of the ENT examination was normal. Body temperature was 38.1o. A contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan was performed and reported as a nasal tip abscess of 1.2 cm in greatest diameter.

On admission, the patient had a CRP of 6.5mg/dl and an ESR of 52 mm, with no leukocytosis or other relevant laboratory abnormalities. HIV screening was negative. It was decided to drain the abscess in consultation. After administration of a local anaesthetic (lidocaine 2%), a puncture was performed to obtain a sample for culture, with subsequent drainage of approximately 1 cc of pus, debridement and washing with hydrogen peroxide, leaving a silicone drain. After evaluation by the Infectious Diseases Unit, it was decided to start treatment with cloxacillin at a dose of 2g/6h/endovenous, metronidazole 500/6h/endovenous and ciprofloxacin 750 mg/12h/oral. In the culture of the abscess exudate, Staphylococcus aureus sensitive to methicillin was isolated, so treatment was adjusted with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid at a dose of 1g /8h ev. In view of the good evolution, the drain was removed after 48 hours and the patient was discharged 5 days later with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid 875 mg/8h orally, presenting a CRP of 1.2 mg/dl. One month after the end of antibiotic treatment, the patient remained asymptomatic, with no aesthetic or functional sequelae and complete normalisation of analytical inflammatory parameters (CRP of 0.2 mg/dl and ESR of 2mm).
