A 9-month-old infant presented with fever of 48 hours' duration. In the last few hours, he started with irritation and refusal of feeding as well as enlargement of the left hemicollar. He was treated with oral Cefotaxime for the last 48 hours.

Physical examination: Irritable and complaining Neurologically, no neck stiffness and negative meningeal signs Oropharyngeal bulging left posterior pharyngeal wall with left tonsillar pillar displaced towards the midline Increase in size of the left hemicollar, swollen and painful. CBC leukocytosis with neutrophilia. PCR 303 PCT 4.59 Urgent cervical CT scan requested (images included). Left retropharyngeal abscess with inflammatory changes due to contiguity in neighbouring spaces with discrete involvement of the airway and without mediastinal extension. It was decided to admit the patient to hospital for intravenous antibiotics (cefotaxime and clindamycin) and urgent surgical drainage (surgery will be explained). A sample was taken for culture of the purulent content where Streptococcus pyogenes sensitive to penicillin grew. After a week of evolution, the patient evolves favourably and is asymptomatic and is discharged from hospital The retropharyngeal space is the posterior space, in the midline, limited anteriorly by the medial aponeurosis of the deep cervical fascia and posterolaterally by the deep aponeurosis. It extends from the base of the skull to the posterior mediastinum at T3. It is limited between the pharyngeal constrictor muscles and the prevertebral muscles. The "dangerous" space runs behind the retropharyngeal space and is the pathway for the spread of infectious or tumour processes to the mediastinum. The most dangerous aspect of this is its possible rapid spread to the mediastinum if not acted upon quickly, as well as its proximity to the upper airway. It is therefore important to make an early diagnosis in order to establish treatment as soon as possible, including in most cases surgical intervention as well as intravenous antibiotic treatment covering the most frequent causative microorganisms, and directed according to the culture and antiobiogram.
