Anamnesis
68-year-old woman, allergic to tetracyclines. Married with 3 daughters. No family history of interest. Personal history of hypertension, dyslipidaemia, obesity and sleep apnoea syndrome. She has had a permanent pacemaker for atrioventricular block type Mobitz II since June 2014.
On treatment with enalapril/hydrochlorothiazide 20 mg/12.5 mg (1-0-0), simvastatin 20 mg (0-0-1), omeprazole 20 mg (1-0-0).
Her oncological history began in September 2014, when she was diagnosed with stage IV adenocarcinoma of the colon (hepatic), KRAS mutated (G12A). The patient was included in a randomised double-blind clinical trial FOLFOX + bevacizumab vs. FOLFOX + RO5520985.
She received 11 cycles (C) until April 2015, with partial response (PR) as best response, and underwent right hepatectomy in June 2015.
Her first CT scan after surgery showed a filling defect suggestive of thrombus in the right subclavian vein adjacent to the catheter, as well as an increase in the number and size of bilateral pulmonary micronodular lesions suggestive of metastasis.
It was decided to start second line with FOLFIRI without antiangiogenic agents or bolus 5-FU due to thrombosis associated with the catheter, as well as anticoagulation with low molecular weight heparins. After C3, and once control of the thrombosis was achieved and with good blood pressure control, aflibercept was added. The most notable toxicity was G3 diarrhoea, which required hospitalisation, and the best response was stable disease (SS).
After C25, liver recurrence, so treatment was proposed as part of the RE-ARRANGE CD. The patient accepted and, after randomisation, was included in treatment arm C (regorafenib 160 mg/day 1 week on/1 week off, first cycle, second cycle 160 mg/day 3 weeks on/ 1 week off). Hepatic progression in first control CT scan in November 2016.
Retreatment with FOLFOX was decided, of which she received 3 cycles, admitted on two occasions for pneumonia and lumbar pain related to metastatic lumbar bone involvement. In March 2017, the patient received the first administration of zoledronic acid and lumbar palliative radiotherapy (22Gy on L2-L3 and a single dose of 8Gy on L4). Also, a brace was prescribed by traumatology.
In April 2017, the patient was admitted to the emergency department for headache of 48 hours' duration with no response to third-stage analgesia. A cranial CT scan was performed with no alterations and IV perfusion with opioids was started at doses equianalgesic to those the patient had via transdermal route for pain control. The patient experienced a progressive deterioration in the level of consciousness with the appearance of fever, as well as agitation that required antipsychotics to control. Bladder catheterisation was performed without pathological urine, blood and urine cultures were taken, isolation and empirical antibiotic therapy was started.

Physical examination
On our first assessment on the ward, the patient was bedridden and in poor general condition. Eupneic respiratory pattern at rest with oxygen in nasal goggles. Skin pallor. Poor perfusion. Glasgow score 8 (eye opening to call, withdrawal to pain, no verbal response).
Uncoordinated movements of upper limbs. Does not obey orders. Absence of bilateral skin-plantar reflex. Pupils in intermediate reactive position. Brudzinski's sign present. Cervical rigidity. Secretion noises.

Complementary tests
"CT scan of the lumbar spine (February 2017): loss of height of the vertebral bodies of L2-L5, suggesting small fracture-platelets due to vertebral insufficiency, with a less likely metastatic origin. In contrast, the vertebral body of L4 showed a greater loss of height and a global sclerosis in its density with ill-defined internal areas of lytic appearance forming a mottled pattern, suggestive of possible metastatic involvement.
"Urgent cranial CT scan (April 2017): absence of intra- or extraxial space-occupying lesions, with no signs of bleeding or midline deviation.
"Laboratory tests on the 1st day of admission (April 2017): leukocytosis with left deviation. CRP 245 mg/l (in the ER 100 mg/l). Haemoglobin 9.8g/dl. The rest, without alterations of interest.

Diagnosis
"Acute meningoencephalitis due to listeria monocytogenes.
"Sepsis and bacteraemia due to Listeria monocytogenes.
"Stage IV adenocarcinoma of the colon (liver, bone, lung).

Treatment
The Microbiology Department informed us of the growth of Listeria monocytogenes in blood cultures, so, after discussing the case with Infections and Neurology, we decided to postpone for the moment the lumbar puncture, due to the recently irradiated lumbar lesions and the clinical deterioration of the patient, assuming that this germ was the cause of the patient's neurological symptoms.
It was decided to start targeted antibiotic therapy with ampicillin and gentamicin, as well as adjuvant therapy with dexamethasone.
That same night, the patient began to have focal seizures in the right hemibody, for which midazolam was prescribed to control them, and levetiracetam 500 mg every 12 hours was added to the treatment.
Despite this, the patient continued to present subintrusive crises, so it was decided, given the hepatic dysfunction, to add lacosamide 50 mg/12 h, which was finally increased to 100 mg/12 h due to the persistence of the crises.

Evolution
A new urgent cranial CT scan was requested, with no changes with respect to the previous one. The patient continued with progressive neurological deterioration and, after 8 days of hospitalisation without any improvement despite all the measures taken, we decided, in agreement with the family, to limit the therapeutic effort.
The patient was discharged without signs of suffering after 15 days of hospitalisation.
That same night, the patient began to have focal seizures in the right hemibody, for which midazolam was prescribed to control them, and levetiracetam 500 mg every 12 hours was added to the treatment.
Despite this, the patient continued to present subintrusive crises, so it was decided, given the hepatic dysfunction, to add lacosamide 50 mg/12 h, which, due to the persistence of the same, was finally increased to 100 mg/12 h.
