Anamnesis
A 55-year-old man attended the Internal Medicine outpatient clinic in May 2013 for general malaise and a feeling of chest tightness. His personal history of interest included type 2 diabetes mellitus being treated with oral antidiabetics, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, smoker of 80 packs/year. Independent in activities of daily living, working in a butcher's shop.

Physical examination
He was in good general condition with PS-ECOG 1, with an unremarkable physical examination.

Complementary tests
Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis with deviation to the left, with the rest of the values being unremarkable and tumour markers within normal limits. The chest X-ray showed upper mediastinal widening with increased density in the retrotracheal area, and a CT scan was performed showing a mass / lymphadenopathy with heterogeneous uptake at the level of the right paramediastinum in the upper lobe, 6cm in diameter, contacting the right posterolateral wall of the trachea and the lateral wall of the oesophagus, with probable infiltration of both.
Subcentimetric right upper right paratracheal and retrotracheal subcentimetric adenopathies.
Completing the study with PET-CT, malignant pulmonary neoformation was confirmed in the right upper lobe with mediastinal infiltration without other signs of extension.
The pathological anatomy was compatible with adenocarcinoma (EGFR -, ALK-).

Diagnosis
It was a T4N1MO, EIIIA, EGFRwt and ALK-rearranged adenocarcinoma of the lung.

Treatment
Between June and September 2013 he received treatment with chemotherapy (CDDP 75 mg/m2 iv d1 + oral Navelbine 60mg/m2 vo d1 and 8 every 21 days) and concomitant radiotherapy, with partial radiological response. In October 2014, he presented with disease progression due to an increase in the size of the lung mass in the right upper lobe (LSD), treated with chemotherapy with Carboplatin AUC5 iv d1 + Paclitaxel 175mg/m2 iv d1 every 21 days x 3 cycles, followed by re-irradiation of the primary tumour, which ended in January 2015 with disease stability. In May 2015, disease progression was observed at the local and medistinal lymph node level, with an increase in the size of the lesions and hypermetabolism on PET-CT. The patient reported intense asthenia and generalised osteoarticular pain that limited his daily activity. He started third-line treatment with Nivolumab 3mg/kg every 14 days. He showed rapid clinical improvement and radiological stability of the tumour lesions, with complete metabolic response on PET-CT after the 5th cycle of treatment.

Evolution
In April 2016, after 18 cycles of Nivolumab, the patient reported recurrence of asthenia, together with progressive dyspnoea of several days' evolution until it became moderate exertion and a dry, non-productive cough. Physical examination was unremarkable.
A CT scan was performed which showed persistence of the lung mass in the LSD, with signs of mediastinal invasion and encasement of the right main bronchus. It was associated with peripheral subpleural and minimally peribronchial condensations limited by cystole plus the presence of multiple bilateral nodular images in ground glass, with inverse halo sign in the context of organising pneumonia. Significant hilar and mediastinal adenopathic growth was seen. Given the context of the patient, these findings could correspond to atypical presentation of mediastinal lung and lymph node disease vs. changes secondary to pulmonary toxicity due to QT. Assess the infectious environment.
In addition, in view of the CT findings, it was decided to perform fibrobronchoscopy, with a right tree with complete occlusion of the apical segment of the upper lobe bronchus and almost complete occlusion of the other segment, due to intense mucosal oedema. The study was completed with bronchoalveolar lavage of the upper lobar bronchus, obtaining negative cytology results for malignant cells, negative PCR M. Tuberculosis and B.A.A.R and no growth in bacteriological culture and fungal culture.
After the results of the complementary tests, without finding an evident infectious process and with suspicion of anti-PD1 as the cause of the pulmonary pathology, it was decided to suspend Nivolumab and start Dexamethasone 12mg/day, in a descending pattern.
Clinically, therefore, it was a grade 2 pneumonitis, and the patient was symptomatic and did not require oxygen therapy.
The patient rapidly improved clinically, with a decrease in asthenia and disappearance of the respiratory symptoms, and remained asymptomatic.
A re-evaluation CT scan was performed one month later, showing minimal residual subpleural and peribronchial condensation in LSD with significant reduction with respect to the previous study, plus disappearance of the nodular lesions in ground-glass appearance with inverse halo sign. No significant changes were seen in the lung mass. Significant radiological improvement due to complete disappearance of bilateral pseudonodular images and subtotal disappearance of subpleural and peribronchial condensations in LSD.
Due to the fact that it was grade 2 pneumonitis with complete resolution after treatment and the good response of the tumour disease that was being obtained with Nivolumab, it was decided to reintroduce it again, thus scheduling the 19th cycle of treatment.
