Anamnesis
47-year-old woman allergic to iodine, social smoker, operated on for varicose veins, two caesarean sections and a gluteal abscess. No other medical history of interest or usual treatment. Lives with her husband and three children, works as a teacher.
As a result of iron deficiency anaemia that had been evolving for a year and had not improved despite oral ferrotherapy, a colonoscopy was performed in January 2017. This revealed a neoformation 60 cm from the anal margin with a positive biopsy for adenocarcinoma. A CT scan of the body and MRI of the liver revealed the presence of at least four liver metastases in both lobes, the largest of which was 15 mm in diameter.

Given the results, it was initially decided to perform surgery on the primary and, depending on the intraoperative findings, to also perform surgery on the liver metastases. In February 2017, a laparoscopic sigmoidectomy was performed with intraoperative ultrasound, where multiple liver metastases were observed; at least 3 in the left hepatic lobe and 5 small ones in the right, so no action was taken on them. The anatomopathological study of the surgical specimen confirmed adenocarcinoma of the colon (pT3), with metastases in 5 of the 30 resected lymph nodes (pN2a); without loss of expression of repair proteins and with mutation in exon 2 of KRAS.
After surgery, the case was presented in a multidisciplinary session, deciding on perioperative chemotherapy treatment and assessing the resection of the liver metastases depending on the response. In March 2017 he began treatment with XELOX, which he received for 4 cycles. In the re-evaluation CT and MRI scan, hepatic progression was observed, so 2nd line with FOLFIRI-aflibercept was started. After 6 cycles, a serological and radiological response was observed and, in November 2017, metastasectomy of the liver lesions was performed. Initially, the patient had a good evolution, but on the 2nd postoperative day, he began to show haemodynamic instability.

Physical examination
At the time of our assessment on the General Surgery ward, the patient presented with BP 69/40 mm Hg, heart rate 120 bpm, tachypnoea at rest, mucocutaneous pallor, poor distal perfusion and nausea. The abdomen is soft, there is no peritonism and the abdominal drainage debit remains unchanged.

Additional tests
An urgent CT scan was requested in which no acute post-surgical complications were seen, but moderate pericardial effusion was observed which, on transthoracic ultrasound, led to cardiac tamponade. Pericardiocentesis was performed with evacuation of 380 ml of serohaematic fluid with exudate characteristics (pH < 7.2, LDH, high protein and cholesterol, low glucose) and with a large number of red blood cells and leukocytes (90% polymorphonuclear). He progressed favourably, but a month later the effusion recurred, this time with associated pleural effusion. On this occasion, a new pericardiocentesis and pleuropericardial window were required. Troponins were normal at all times.
Due to the unusual nature of the picture, with a pericardial fluid negative for malignant cells, the study was completed with numerous tests. The immunological study with antinuclear antibodies, rheumatoid factor and complement were normal. In addition, the presence of markers suggestive of lymphoma in the pericardial fluid was ruled out. Serologies for Coxiella burnetii, Bartonella henselae, Borrelia burgdorferi, Entamoeba histolytica, Toxoplasma gondii, herpes simplex virus 1 and 2, cytomegalovirus, Epstein Barr virus, varicella zoster virus and parvovirus B19 were negative. However, a positive rose Bengal test for Brucella, Coombs' test and agglutinations were also positive with a titre of 1/40.

Diagnosis
In this context, a diagnosis of pericardial effusion secondary to brucellosis was established in a patient with a history of pT3 pN2a pM1 (hepatic) colon adenocarcinoma pT3 pN2a pM1, with mutation in exon 2 of KRAS.

Treatment
Based on these findings, treatment with doxycycline and hydroxychloroquine was started, but hydroxychloroquine was discontinued after three months due to alterations in liver function tests.

Evolution
After 6 months of treatment, the serology was negative (titre 1/20) and the pericardial effusion did not recur.
Regarding the oncological disease, she continued to be monitored without evidence of disease until July 2018, when a liver and lymph node relapse was documented. Treatment was resumed with FOLFIRI-aflibercept, of which she has received 18 cycles to date with grade 2 thrombopenia as the only toxicity. At the last PET scan in March 2019, the disease is stable.
The patient maintains ECOG 0, has an active life, continues to teach English to her students and travels once a year to Australia where her adoptive family lives.
