Anamnesis
"Male patient aged 68 years, with a history of arterial hypertension, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and active smoking of 63 pack-years.
"Good compliance with treatment (olmesartan 20 mg 1c/d, hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg 1c/d,
"tamsulosin 0.4mg 1c/d).
"No family history of interest.
"Diagnosed with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma, T2 (atelectasis), N0, M1c (brain metastases, bilateral lung metastases, pleural effusion), EGFR negative, no ALK translocation, ROS-1 negative and PD-L1 positive in 90% of tumour cells.
"Good social support and independent for basic activities of daily living.
Holocranial radiotherapy of brain metastases was performed, which ended on 03/11/2018, being treated with corticosteroids in a descending pattern due to neurological symptoms during the following weeks. He started first line treatment with pembrolizumab on 23/11/2018.
"He attended the emergency department on 2/12/2018, presenting with dyspnoea of 4 days' evolution, of abrupt onset, with rapid evolution to minimal effort, with increased coughing without expectoration: afebrile; he had no clinical signs of heart failure, or other symptoms due to devices or systems. Flu vaccination.

Physical examination
On arrival at triage, he presented with a blood pressure of 113/77 mm Hg, a heart rate of 97 bpm and an oxygen saturation of 93% with FiO2 of 35%. Temperature was 36.5 oC and a Glasgow score of 15.
On examination he was in fair general condition, conscious and oriented, although with moderate dehydration and tachypnoea of 37 breaths per minute.
Cardiac auscultation showed rhythmic tones, without murmurs, while pulmonary auscultation showed abundant rhonchi and bilateral wheezing. The abdominal examination showed no pathological findings, as well as no signs of oedema or signs of venous thrombosis in the lower limbs.

Complementary tests
Laboratory tests showed no alterations in the red or white series. Arterial blood gases maintained a pH of 7.48, with partial respiratory failure (PO2 of 53 mm Hg and pCO2 of 30 mm Hg). He had no ionic alterations, with normal renal and hepatic function. A C-reactive protein of 13.2 mg/dl and a D-dimer of 975 ng/ml (normal value < 100) were noted. A chest X-ray showed bilateral alveolar infiltrates with a predominance of bilateral interstitial involvement, as well as possible effusion and/or atelectasis in the right lung. The angio-CT scan showed no repletion defects in the pulmonary arteries, highlighting minimal bilateral pleural effusion and the appearance of ground-glass opacities in both lung bases, not present in the previous CT scan of October 2018. Pneumococcal antigens, Legionella and influenza PCR were negative.

Diagnosis
Given the findings at that time, the differential diagnosis was raised between a grade 3 pembrolizumab pneumonitis (severe, life-threatening symptoms, with hypoxia and respiratory distress), and an infectious pneumonitis (primarily bacterial, with Pneumocystis jirovecii coverage).

Treatment
Pembrolizumab treatment was discontinued and methylprednisolone was administered at 2-3 mg/kg/day. Antibiotic therapy with levofloxacin and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was added, as well as supportive therapy.

Evolution
The patient showed partial improvement of his symptoms. However, during the following days the symptoms reappeared with increased cough with expectoration, increasing oxygen requirements and worsening general condition. Follow-up HR-CT, fibrobronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage were performed. Gram stain showed yeasts, with positive culture for Aspergillus fumigatus, as well as positive serology for cytomegalovirus and Aspergillus, and positive RT-PCR for Pneumocystis jirovecii. Voriconazole (loading dose of 400 mg every 12 hours and subsequently 200 mg every 12 hours) and ganciclovir (10 mg/kg/day) were added. Despite this, unfavourable evolution persisted and the patient died six days later.
