Anamnesis
53-year-old woman from Peru, hypertensive and diabetic, diagnosed in April 2010 with grade V chronic renal failure secondary to interstitial nephritis. She required a renal transplant in May 2012, presenting acute T-cell mediated rejection as an immediate complication. Since December 2013 he has presented deterioration of graft function with proteinuria in the nephrotic range. His baseline glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was 35. He received immunosuppressive treatment with tacrolimus and low-dose prednisone.

In March 2015, he was admitted to the nephrology ward for a study of constitutional syndrome consisting of asthenia, anorexia and weight loss of 10 kg over 2 months of evolution, as well as dyspnoea on minimal exertion.

Physical examination
Blood pressure 127/67 mmHg, HR 80 bpm. Saturation 93% (with GN at 1.5 bpm), ECOG 2. Conscious and oriented in the three spheres, normohydrated, normoperfused. Eupneic at rest. Pulmonary auscultation: vesicular murmur abolished up to two thirds in the right hemithorax, isolated rhonchi. Abdomen: soft and depressible, no masses or megaliths palpable. Mucocutaneous examination: nondescript.

Complementary tests
"Computed tomography (CT) shows massive right pleural effusion, nodular thickening in the visceral pleura and bilateral pulmonary nodules with ground-glass pattern. At the abdominal level, a large adenopathic mass is observed around the renal graft that extends through the retroperitoneum to the celiac trunk and to the left inguinal level, occupying the iliac chains; a solid lesion is also observed in the hepatic segment 7. The first diagnostic option was lymphoma.
"Thoracentesis and pleural biopsy were performed, and samples were sent to the pathological anatomy department (PA).
"The samples initially referred to PA were negative for malignancy, so an ultrasound-guided biopsy was performed of an accessible lymphadenopathy, in this case left epigastric, ruling out the presence of a lymphoproliferative process and renal carcinoma, as the sample showed abundant skeletal muscle, fibrous connective tissue and fragments with fasciculated fusocellular proliferation with mild atypia. The immunohistochemical study was positive for endothelial markers (CD31 and CD34) and human herpes virus 8 (HHV-8), being compatible with Kaposi's sarcoma (KS).

Diagnosis
Visceral Kaposi's sarcoma in a transplant recipient.

Treatment
After admission, an evacuating thoracentesis was performed, extracting a small amount of fluid due to the presence of multiple trabeculae in the space. Given the early reappearance of pleural effusion, a pulmonary pig-tail and pleurodesis with bleomycin were performed. On the other hand, once the diagnosis of advanced visceral KS had been made, corticosteroid treatment was progressively reduced and immunosuppression was changed from tacrolimus to everolimus.

Evolution
The patient progresses favourably, with improvement in general condition (ECOG 1) and a decrease in dyspnoea, which is the most disabling symptom. Semi-solid brownish expectoration persisted, which was referred to PA and was also compatible with KS.

Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) was requested off-label, following a normal echocardiogram (LVEF 65%). Treatment was started at a dose of 20 mg/m2 in April 2015, which was well tolerated.
