Anamnesis
53-year-old woman from Ecuador, a former smoker of 15 cigarettes/day for 15 years, with a BMI of 25 and dyslipidaemia. Cholecystectomy for biliary colic. She does not take regular treatment (she took atorvastatin for a few months, abandoning the treatment by her own decision). She has 4 healthy children, with no family history of cancer of interest.
She consulted in February 2015 due to steatorrhoea and weight loss of 10 kg in one year. A study of malabsorption and colonoscopy were started with no findings. A CT scan showed mild hepatic steatosis and a 1 cm cystic image in the head of the pancreas. The study was completed with cholangioresonance and MRI of the pancreas, with a 3 cm pancreatic mass suspicious of tumour. To confirm the diagnosis, an upper endoscopic ultrasound was performed, revealing an ill-defined 3 cm mass, biopsies of which were not representative. Due to the suspicion of pancreatic tumour, the patient underwent scheduled cephalic duodenopancreatectomy in December 2015, with complete resection and pathological anatomy of infiltrating pancreatic adenocarcinoma of 1.3 cm associated with papillary intraductal mucinous neoplasia with high-grade dysplasia, infiltration of peripancreatic adipose tissue, free surgical edges and absence of metastasis in 31 isolated lymph nodes, stage pT3, N0, Mx.
The extension study was negative, and in January 2016 he started adjuvant gemcitabine, receiving 6 cycles until June 2016, with good tolerance.
In July 2016 she consulted for pain in the right hypochondrium and ascites.

Physical examination
On arrival at the emergency department:
"Stable vitals with a tendency to tachycardia. BP 109/82 mm Hg, HR 105 bpm, SpO2 97% baseline. Afebrile. Mucocutaneous jaundice.
"ACP: fine bibasal crackles. CVM.
"ABD: very distended, no ascites on tension. Pain in HCD and epigastrium on deep palpation, Murphy negative. No Blumberg. Bilateral renal percussion fist negative.
"MMII: oedema with fovea up to the root of the limbs, no signs of DVT, pulses present.

Complementary tests
Laboratory tests showed hyperbilirubinaemia, with total bilirubin 3.3 mg/dl (mostly direct), with cholestasis (GGT 220 U/L) and normal cytolysis enzymes (GPT 22 U/l, GOT 43 U/l), together with macrocytic anaemia (Hb 8.8 g/dl with MCV 103 fL) and new onset coagulopathy (prothrombin activity 32% and APTT 55.7 seconds).
He was admitted for further investigation and a differential diagnosis was established:
"Infectious aetiology ruled out: ascitic fluid with no evidence of peritonitis. Hepatitis A virus (IgM negative, IgG positive), hepatitis B (HBs Ag negative, HBcIgG negative), hepatitis C (HCV Ac negative), hepatitis E (IgG, IgM and PCR negative), Epstein-Barr virus (IgM negative), cytomegalovirus (IgM positive, PCR < 150 copies), HIV (negative combo) were ruled out.
"The clinical history and the absence of clinical-analytical data suggesting such an aetiology ruled out the presence of an oenolic aetiology.
"Tumour aetiology was ruled out: ascitic fluid cytology was negative for malignant cells. CT and MRI scans were performed without finding tumour recurrence, showing "possible hepatic toxicity on severe steatosis with a fat fraction of 43.5%". A PET scan was performed with the only finding being "pathological hepatic uptake".
"Vascular aetiology (Budd-Chiari, thrombosis) was ruled out due to the absence of findings in the imaging and haematological tests, with the only finding being a polyclonal increase in IgG in relation to cirrhosis.
"Autoimmune aetiology ruled out: 2 negative samples for anti-mitochondrial, anti-smooth muscle, anti-LKM antibodies. Antinuclear antibodies (ENA, DNA) positive 1/80 in a granular and insignificant manner.
"Genetic causes are ruled out: alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency due to normal levels.
"Wilson's disease was initially suspected due to ceruloplasmin < 10U/l, normalising in the second sample and with normal 24-hour urine copper (and absence of copper deposits in the liver biopsy).
"Other rare and less likely causes were ruled out: haemochromatosis (normal liver function, ferritin and transferrin saturation before starting chemotherapy), celiac disease, granulomatous diseases, heart failure (echocardiogram with normal ventricular function).
"Drugs: once other probable causes were ruled out, the drugs received in the last 6 months were analysed (ciprofloxacin for urinary tract infection for 10 days during treatment with gemcitabine, atorvastatin for a few weeks, which the patient stopped on her own decision, gemcitabine).

Diagnosis
With suspicion of acute non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), a liver biopsy was performed: submassive hepatic necrosis with ballooning of the hepatocytes, highly suggestive of NASH of probable pharmacological cause. Since, with the exception of gemcitabine, the other drugs were administered within a short period of time, this complication was attributed to gemcitabine and the drug agency was notified.

Treatment
During admission, the patient received supportive treatment, presenting several episodes of hepatic encephalopathy that were managed conservatively, as well as nosocomial pneumonia that required intravenous antibiotherapy and oxygen therapy, with progressive improvement.

Evolution
After 3 months of hospitalisation, the patient was discharged in October 2016 with clinical improvement and continues to be followed up in Medical Oncology and Digestive Medicine, with no new episodes of decompensation and no data of tumour recurrence to date.
