Anamnesis
A 63-year-old man allergic to acetylsalicylic acid and a former smoker of 80 pack-years. As personal history, he underwent surgery 20 years ago for inguinal hernia and left femur fracture, with implantation of osteosynthesis material.
He has a family history of colon cancer (father), uterine cancer (sister) and breast cancer (5 female cousins).
She started in April 2016 with a dry cough, which was treated with antibiotics. Given the persistence of the symptoms and the association of asthenia, hyporexia and dyspnoea on moderate exertion, she was referred to the Pneumology department, and the diagnostic study was started on an outpatient basis.

Physical examination
ECOG 1. Good general condition. Examination revealed pulmonary hypoventilation in the left hemithorax, with scattered rhonchi, with no other anomalies.

Complementary tests
Computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis showed obstructive atelectasis of the left lower lobe of the lung, associated with parietal thickening of the left main bronchus, with stenosis at the exit of the upper lobar bronchus and occlusion of the lower lobar bronchus. In addition, a 21 mm pulmonary nodule with irregular contours is described in the lateral segment of the middle lobe. It should be noted the existence of mediastinal adenopathic conglomerates and bilateral hilar adenopathies.
Bronchoscopy revealed a grade III mucosal infiltration at the level of the left main bronchus, which was biopsied and was conclusive for squamous cell carcinoma. The EGFR, ALK and ROS-1 studies were negative, while PD-L1 was positive (10 %).
Analytically, there were no pathological findings.

Diagnosis
Left lung squamous cell carcinoma cT2N3 M1a (contralateral lung nodule) stage IV (according to the 7th edition of the TNM classification).

Treatment
He started systemic chemotherapy treatment with cisplatin-gemcitabine in December 2016, receiving a total of 4 cycles until March 2017. A re-evaluation CT scan was performed, showing a partial response, for which she received thoracic radiotherapy for consolidation until the end of May. It should be noted that the CT scan showed an incidental pulmonary thromboembolism, for which the patient received anticoagulant treatment with low molecular weight heparin for a year. He maintains disease response in positron emission tomography (PET) performed after the end of radiotherapy.

Evolution
In September 2017, 4 months after completing radiotherapy, pulmonary and mediastinal lymph node progression was observed on PET, so she started second line of systemic treatment with immunotherapy (nivolumab). Three weeks after the first dose, in October, the patient began to experience proctalgia and a fever of 38°C, requiring surgery for a 7 cm right perianal abscess extending to the ischiorectal fossa. Drainage was performed, obtaining abundant purulent material, and a Pezzer probe was placed, with progressive clinical improvement. We should highlight the analytical evidence of asymptomatic hyperthyroidism, for which she started treatment with metamizole 5 mg. In December, treatment with nivolumab was resumed.
After 5 doses, in January 2018, the patient presented a worsening of the previous right perineal wound, with spontaneous discharge through the wound. A new operation was performed, revealing a perineal abscess extending to the right scrotum, with palpable crepitus at this level. The necrotic material was debrided and the cavity was thoroughly washed, and microbiological documentation of Escherichia coli was found, for which he received antibiotic treatment with cephalosporins. Progressive favourable evolution, with disappearance of the cellulitis and perilesional inflammatory signs, for which he was discharged with a diagnosis of Fournier's gangrene, continuing local treatment on an outpatient basis.
One month after being discharged, in February 2018, he was admitted again due to respiratory insufficiency, with CT scan findings of pulmonary consolidations related to pneumonitis secondary to nivolumab. He started treatment with systemic steroids at a dose of 1 mg/kg, with progressive clinical improvement, and was discharged. In April, a re-evaluation CT scan was performed, with improvement of the infiltrates and tumour stabilisation, so he remained without oncological treatment. In June steroid treatment was suspended and the CT scan was repeated, showing disappearance of the consolidations and partial response of the lung and mediastinal lymph node disease.
One month after discontinuing steroid treatment, in July 2018, the patient began to experience macroscopic haematuria, so he was assessed by the Urology Department, who performed a cystoscopy, revealing an enlarged papillary bladder tumour at the level of the left hemitrigoneum, suggestive of malignancy. In August, transurethral resection of the lesion was performed, and the pathological anatomy concluded that it was a low grade non-invasive urothelial carcinoma pT1a.
She continued to be monitored, presenting clinical deterioration of one month's evolution consisting of asthenia, hyporexia and epigastric pain with associated nausea and vomiting, for which she was admitted in October 2018. During admission, a re-evaluation CT scan was performed, showing stabilisation of the lung and mediastinal lymph node disease, but, as new findings, a lesion in the head of the pancreas with possible infiltration of the second duodenal portion, and locoregional lymphadenopathies, suggestive of malignancy.
In view of the patient's clinical deterioration, with poor functional status, it was decided to focus treatment on symptomatic relief, without any other diagnostic or therapeutic measures. The patient finally died in November 2018.
