45-YEAR-OLD FEMALE PATIENT who comes to the clinic referred by her general dentist to evaluate the periodontal status of her mouth. The main reason for the patient's consultation is: I have noticed bad breath, bleeding and inflammation for the last 4 years despite having been undergoing periodontal treatment for 3 years. In addition, my "blades" have separated.

As for her medical history, she has a chronic autoimmune thyroiditis and therefore does not need treatment. She has been an ex-smoker for 5 years. Her dental history shows the patient's interest in solving her periodontal problem, as she has just had periodontal access surgery on her jaw 4 weeks ago and has had frequent prophylaxis for a long time. She also had orthodontic treatment 9 years ago.

In the extraoral examination, no notable signs were found, while the intraoral examination revealed a congenital diastema between the central incisors for which he was treated 9 years ago; an overbite of 6 mm with occlusal trauma in protrusive (eccentric fringes). Regarding the gingival aspect, there was an evident increase in size, a change in colour with reddened gums, very swollen, especially in sextant II, as well as loss of the scalloped and fine shape and usual texture compatible with gingival health. In view of the suspicion of periodontitis, the patient was offered a complete radiographic examination. The patient had an orthopantomography and given her thyroid situation the decision was made not to do a complete periapical series. Two periapical radiographs were taken of the anterosuperior sextant, the area most affected by insertion loss and marginal bone loss.

A complete clinical examination was also performed with recording of all periodontal parameters reflected in the periodontogram (Florida Probe System® FL, USA). His results showed periodontal pockets ≥ 6 mm in 70 % of the sites, a bleeding rate of 100 % and a plaque index of 48 %. In addition, he had grade I mobility of the upper incisors.

As complementary diagnostic tests, volatile sulphur compounds were measured, as this was one of her concerns at the time of consultation (Oral Chroma®). A qualitative microbiological analysis was also carried out, taking into account the inflammation pattern despite the fact that the patient had been undergoing periodontal treatment with her regular dentist for 3 years and without clinical improvement, using a DNA probe (Sunstar, Guidor). Her result reveals the presence of Porphyromonas Gingivalis, Tannerella Forshytia and Treponema Denticola, all belonging to the "Red" series (World Workshop 1996), as well as others belonging to the "Orange" series (Prevotella Intermedia Porvimonas Micros and Fusebacterium Nucleatum).

According to the Armitage classification, in 2013 the patient was diagnosed with generalised moderate chronic periodontitis, localised advanced and 100% bleeding on probing. With regard to the interarch relationship, there was a vertical crosslinking of 6 mm and horizontal crosslinking of 4 mm, as well as occlusal trauma and fringing in eccentric disclusion on the anterior front and increased congenital interincisal diastema. Periodontal deinflammatory treatment consisting of oral hygiene instructions and scaling and root planing within 24 hours (Full Mouth Disinfection-Kinane 2004) was proposed and carried out. After 4 weeks, complete periodontal records were taken to evaluate the response as seen in the photographs and periodontal data (periodontogram S. Florida).

Subsequently, advanced regenerative periodontal treatment was performed on sextant II with removal of irritants and polishing of the developmental sulcus on the root surface of #11 mesiopalatal, and application of enamel-derived proteins (Emdogain®, Straumann), as well as a regimen of metronidazole 500 mg every 8 hours for 7 days.

According to the New Classification of the 2017 World Workshop on Periodontal and Peri-implant Diseases and Conditions ("the World Workshop"), this patient would have been classified as stage III grade B periodontitis.

To classify the patient's periodontitis into stages and grades, we can refer to the decision-making algorithm. Given the suspicion of periodontitis in our patient, the loss of attachment (PIC) in more than 1 tooth was assessed and specific X-rays were taken in the anterior sextant (most affected area) and periodontal probing to record the loss of interproximal attachment which was not solely due to local factors, and a complete periodontogram was carried out. The patient had periodontitis as probing depths > 4 mm were found in several locations. Once the patient has been diagnosed with periodontitis, the stage and degree must be established.

First we will assess the extent of the disease by analysing whether clinical attachment loss (ICL) or bone loss (LO) affects more than 30 % of the sites, as in our case, which will be classified as generalised periodontitis. To establish the stage of periodontitis in this patient, we will assess the severity (using ICP, PO and PDP, which are the periodontal tooth losses) and the complexity (by assessing the PS: probing depth) of the periodontitis. In this patient we are dealing with generalised periodontitis stage III (pockets in more than 30% of locations, vertical defect in #11), grade B due to the PO/age ratio and absence of risk factors.

Fortunately, in this case we have information on its evolution 5 years later. Both clinical images and periodontal and radiographic records show periodontal stability, and in some areas even gain of clinical attachment as well as partial correction of the diastema.
