Anamnesis
A 61-year-old male smoker presented to the emergency department with a generalised tonic-clonic movement crisis lasting several minutes with a subsequent post-critical state.
He was a single man living alone in a rural environment. He had no other medical history of interest or relevant contacts.
The patient and family reported that he had previously presented with general symptoms of fever, weight loss and asthenia with anorexia.

Physical examination
"BP 120/70 mm Hg. Ta 37.7 oC. HR 80 bpm. Oxygen saturation 95 % basal.
"Eupneic. No palpable lymph nodes.
"Pulmonary auscultation with scattered rhonchi in all fields.
"Rhythmic cardiac auscultation without murmurs or extratonos.
"Abdomen soft and depressible, with normal hydro-aerial sounds.
"No oedema or signs of venous thrombosis.
"Skin examination revealed no relevant alterations.

Complementary tests
A haemogram, coagulation and blood biochemistry were normal.
Chest X-ray showed a pulmonary mass of approximately 3 cm in the middle lobe in contact with the parietal pleura compatible with primary pulmonary neoplasia, and brain CT scan showed right frontal LOES with associated vasogenic oedema suggesting brain metastasis.
The patient was admitted to Internal Medicine where a thoracoabdomino-pelvic CT scan showed a pulmonary mass in the lingula and a nodule in the LSD segment with evidence of paraseptal emphysema and probable pulmonary fibrosis. There was no evidence of involvement at other levels.
A CT-guided core needle biopsy was performed on the lingula mass, which was found to be compatible with material consisting of atypical three-dimensional glandular clusters compatible with adenocarcinoma. No EGFR mutation or ALK translocation was detected. HIV and hepatitis serologies were negative.

Diagnosis
With the diagnosis of stage IV lung adenocarcinoma due to brain involvement in a patient with ECOG-0, a referral was made to Oncology.

Treatment
Treatment was started with dexamethasone at a dose of 4 mg orally every 8 hours, levetiracetam 500 mg orally every 12 hours and omeprazole 20 mg orally daily. He received holocranial radiotherapy and, subsequently, a first cycle of chemotherapy with Carboplatin AUC-5-paclitaxel 175 mg /m2-bevacizumab 15 mg iv.

Evolution
Fifteen days after completing the holocranial radiotherapy, the patient attended the emergency department for respiratory symptoms consisting of dyspnoea and productive cough, high fever and disorientation.
The patient presented with significant impairment of the general condition with tachypnoea and tugging. He was febrile (39oC) and tachycardic (HR 120 bpm) with BP 130/70 mm Hg. Pulmonary auscultation showed bilateral rhonchi. The rest of the physical examination was unremarkable.
Laboratory tests showed leukocytosis with elevated acute phase reactants and arterial blood gases showed hypoxaemic respiratory failure with a PaO2 of 45 mm Hg. Blood cultures and sputum culture were taken.
A new chest X-ray showed bilateral interstitial infiltrate in addition to the known pulmonary lesion.
He was admitted to the oncology ward with oxygen therapy at 15 bpm, intravenous corticosteroid treatment, bronchodilators and broad-spectrum antibiotics based on meropenem 1 g every 8 hours as the patient was considered immunocompromised.
The clinical evolution was not satisfactory in the first two days, he remained febrile and hypoxaemic, so it was decided to add sulphamethoxazole-trimethoprim (160 mg/32 mg every 6 hours) to the treatment to cover a possible opportunistic infection by Pneumocystis jirovecii, given that he was an oncological patient being treated with high doses of corticosteroids.
After 24 hours, the patient became afebrile and, subsequently, his oxygenation improved, making it possible to reduce oxygen intake and corticosteroid doses.
Five days after admission, the result of the sputum culture was received, which was positive for Nocardia spp.
With these data and reviewing the natural history of the Nocardia infection, we decided to consult the Infectious Diseases Department and requested a new brain CT scan, which was performed 21 days after initiation of treatment with sulfamethoxazole. The brain CT scan showed complete regression of the brain lesions. Intravenous antibiotic treatment was completed for 4 weeks and, finally, the patient was discharged with oral antibiotic treatment and follow-up in the oncology outpatient clinic, receiving a total of 7 cycles of the aforementioned treatment regimen.
Subsequently, the disease progressed and he finally died of his tumour 9 months after diagnosis.
