Anamnesis
A 38-year-old male patient recently operated on for testicular neoplasia by means of left orchiectomy with findings compatible with intratubular germ cell neoplasia with extratubular extension. The extension study highlighted the existence of an image of balloon loosening and extensive retroperitoneal lymph node involvement; elevated tumour markers; α-fetoprotein, human gonadotropin (ß-HCG) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH): all compatible with a stage III non-seminoma testicular tumour.
After being assessed by Medical Oncology, it was proposed to start treatment with first-line chemotherapy (QT) according to the BEP x 4 cycles scheme (bleomycin, etoposide and cisplatin). The treatment was scheduled to begin after cryopreservation of the sperm.
The patient, 5 days after being assessed, the day before the scheduled start of treatment, went to the Emergency Department for sudden onset respiratory failure and fever.

Physical examination
Poor general condition with profuse sweating. Tachypnoea at rest with basal oxygen saturation of 88%. Temperature 38.5 oC.

Complementary tests
Urgent chest CT scan was requested to rule out pulmonary thromboembolism. The CT scan revealed multiple nodular images of up to 3 cm, widely distributed in the lung parenchyma of both lungs (known metastases). Interspersed with the nodular images are areas in ground-glass, with unspecific characteristics, to assess their origin (inflammatory, infectious, etc.). Analysis showed elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and leukocytosis with neutrophilia. A new determination of tumour markers was performed; LDH 810 U/l (normal range 135-250), α-fetoprotein 42.73 ng/ml (normal range 0-10) and ß-HCG 140-471 mIU/ml (normal range 0-5). Prior to the initiation of empirical antibiotic therapy, peripheral blood cultures were taken.

Diagnosis
Respiratory failure secondary to oncological disease and respiratory infection.

Treatment
Empirical antibiotic therapy with piperacillin-tazobactam, corticotherapy and fluid therapy was started, as well as respiratory support with non-invasive mechanical ventilation.

Evolution
Given the severity of the patient, being a potentially curable oncological disease, it was decided to admit him to the ICU, where treatment was started with QT with etoposide and cisplatin; bleomycin was not prescribed so as not to interfere with ventilation.
After administration of the first cycle of QT, the evolution from the respiratory point of view was torpid with bronchial secretions that were cultured and two bacteria were isolated; Enterobacter aerogenes and Proteus mirabilis; both sensitive to carbapenems, adding complications such as pancytopenia secondary to treatment with QT. Targeted antibiotherapy was started with meropenem 2 g every 8 hours, support treatment with colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), transfusion of two red blood cell concentrates and orotracheal intubation.
The patient gradually, albeit slowly, began to improve in terms of breathing, allowing extubation after 10 days. A decrease in tumour marker levels was also observed. In view of the stable clinical situation, he was discharged from the ICU to the oncology ward, where the second cycle of QT was administered.
Finally, due to significant clinical improvement, without the need for respiratory support with oxygen therapy, he was discharged home to continue treatment on an outpatient basis.
Subsequently, he received 4 more cycles of QT according to the BEP scheme with a high partial response of the pulmonary nodules and retroperitoneal mass (re-evaluation CT), so he underwent surgical rescue of the residual retroperitoneal mass, with a complete partial response according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours (RECIST) criteria.
Currently, after three years of follow-up, the patient has no evidence of disease.
