Anamnesis
This is a 75-year-old woman at the time of first consultation (January 2017), with no known allergies, no toxic habits or cardiovascular risk factors, and with a relevant personal history of hypothyroidism on replacement therapy. His family medical or oncological history includes a mother who died of colorectal carcinoma at the age of 70.
Her oncological history began in January 2017 when she consulted the Digestive Department for a history of dyspepsia of several months' duration. An ultrasound scan of the abdomen and complete blood tests were performed, with no significant findings except for elevated GGT and AF, which led to colonoscopy and gastroscopy, which showed no pathology, and abdominal computed tomography (CT), which revealed several indeterminate hepatic space-occupying lesions (LOE) in segment II (31 mm) and others between segments V and V (6-8 mm) suspected of secondary deposits. In view of the findings, magnetic resonance cholangiography (MRI) and hepatic MRI were performed, confirming the presence of lesions suspicious of secondary deposits, the largest measuring 47 mm, and the rest of the lesions were indeterminate.
During the diagnostic process, a nodule was palpated in the lower left quadrant of the left breast, and mammography and ultrasound were requested, which revealed a nodule suspicious of malignancy (BIRADS 4c), so a core needle biopsy (CNB) of the left breast was performed in June 2017 with the anatomopathological result (AP) of infiltrating ductal carcinoma. She underwent surgery in July 2017 by wide quadrantectomy with free margins, with selective biopsy of the sentinel lymph node (BSGC), identifying 2 adenopathies, one of them positive by immunohistochemistry for cytokeratins. The definitive PA is: 1.3 cm infiltrating ductal carcinoma, moderately differentiated, grade II, oestrogen receptor (ER) 95%, progesterone receptor (PR) 90%, Ki 67 12%, HER-2 negative. TNM pT1cpN0(i+)(sn).
The patient persists with symptoms of dyspepsia and abdominal pain, so she was admitted in July 2017 to the Digestive Department and subsequently to Medical Oncology to complete her work-up.

Physical examination
Physical examination on admission revealed an acceptable general condition, ECOG 0. No lymphadenopathy in the laterocervical or supraclavicular regions. Breast asymmetry with scar in the lower-internal quadrant of the left breast with no signs of complication. There were no palpable nodules in both breasts or axillary adenopathies. No masses or visceromegaly were palpable. The rest of the examination showed no findings.

Complementary tests
During admission to Medical Oncology, the following complementary tests were performed:
"Tumour markers: negative.
"Hepatotropic virus serology: negative.
"Oncological positron emission tomography (PET): known hepatic lesion in segment II, non-specific from the metabolic point of view. No other significant findings.
"Liver ultrasound: focal hepatic lesion in segment II suspicious for malignancy, with necrotic or fibrotic lesion behaviour (metastasis, cholangiocarcinoma, fibrotic lesion) that has grown discreetly with respect to the initial CT scan, the smaller lesions remain non-specific.
"Fine needle aspiration-fine needle aspiration (FNA) and BAG: connective tissue with extensive coagulative necrosis, inflammatory infiltrate and fibrosis. Summary: inconclusive cytology.

Diagnosis
Diagnosis of infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the left breast pT1c pN0 (i+) and suspected metastatic lesion in the left hepatic lobe (one single suspicious lesion and two undetermined lesions).
Treatment
It was decided to present the patient to a multidisciplinary tumour committee to assess the resection of the hepatic LOE and complete the anatomopathological study.
She underwent surgery by General Surgery on 21/8/2017, with resection of two lesions in segment V-VI of the liver and laparoscopic hepatic segmentectomy II-III, and was discharged without complications.

Evolution
The definitive PA of the hepatic lesions was as follows: subcapsular hepatic segments with necrotic eosinophilic hepatic nodules with the presence of degenerated parasite eggs in the necrotic material. No signs of malignancy were seen.
Finally, in view of the AP findings, serology for parasites was requested, being positive for Fasciola hepatica, so she started treatment with triclabendazole in November 2017, with good response to it without relevant toxicities. In the anamnesis, the patient reported being a regular consumer of wild watercress.
After liver surgery, the patient began adjuvant radiotherapy treatment (RT) between 11/09/2017 and 17/10/2017, with a dose of 50 Gy in 25 sessions at 2 Gy/session in the left breast. She has started adjuvant hormonal treatment with which they are currently maintained.
