Anamnesis
The patient was a 33-year-old man, married, with two children, engineer by profession. He had a family history of a maternal uncle with pancreatic cancer and a maternal aunt with ovarian cancer. Personal history: overweight until one year before the first visit to the oncology department, sporadic smoker, social drinker, he was being treated with eprosartan 600 mg/day for high blood pressure and had undergone surgery for varus flatfoot.
In January 2006, he started a low-calorie diet, with a weight loss of up to 18 kg even after stopping the diet. Over the months, he became associated with belt pain with visual analogue scale (VAS) 5/10, diarrhoea and food intolerance without steatorrhoea. In October 2006, he consulted in relation to the weight loss and a blood test showed anaemia, altered liver tests and hypercalcaemia, for which he was referred to the Internal Medicine department.

Physical examination
On examination, the patient was in good general condition, ECOG-1 with skin pallor, no lymph nodes were palpable and the abdomen was painful to the touch. A dubious mass was palpable in the epigastrium.

Additional tests
Further investigations were performed, including abdominal ultrasound and computed tomography (CT), which showed multiple liver lesions and a large lesion in the pancreas. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the liver lesions as metastases and detected the presence of a large pancreatic mass (> 9 cm) and portal hypertension. A scanner-guided puncture of the pancreatic mass was performed with a pathological diagnosis of malignancy and suggestive of adenocarcinoma, although the isolated cells were insufficient for immunohistochemical studies.

Diagnosis
Although initially the diagnosis was made as probable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, later, as we shall see after rebiopsy of the tumour, it was confirmed to be a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour (PNET).

Treatment
With histological confirmation of pancreatic cancer, it was decided, after consulting with the patient and signing this written informed consent, to start 1st line with gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m2/weekly x 3 every 4 weeks in January 2007. After three months, the CT scan confirmed progression of the primary cancer and so in April 2007, 2nd line with capecitabine 1,000 mg/m2/12 h x 14 days and erlotinib 150 mg/day orally was started.
Again, 3 months later, in July 2007, a new CT scan confirmed progression of the primary tumour, so a third line of chemotherapy was started with capecitabine 1,000 mg/m2/12 h x 14 days + oxaliplatin 130 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. The patient completed 26 cycles in October 2009 without clinical or radiological progression, maintaining a good general condition without toxicity (no neuropathy) and with clinical response, weight gain and disappearance of pain and biochemical response, normalisation of calcium and liver tests.

Evolution
In December 2009, due to the stabilisation maintained for more than two years, unlikely in the third line of pancreatic cancer, the digestive service was asked to perform a pancreatic biopsy to rule out another histology. Access for the biopsy was difficult due to the large mass in the pancreas, portal hypertension and the risk of bleeding, so an exploratory laparoscopy was finally performed. A pancreatic tissue sample was obtained with histological confirmation of a well-differentiated PNET with Ki 67 of 1%, Octreoscan® with high radiotracer avidity (Krenning score 3), elevated serum chromogranin and normal urine indoles.
In May 2010, seven months after stopping chemotherapy, CT scan confirmed stable disease and treatment with somatostatin analogue, lanreotide autogel 120 mg every 4 weeks subcutaneous, was prescribed.
After two and a half years of treatment, in November 2012, radiological progression was observed in the liver and pancreas. The patient was in good general condition, ECOG 0, so it was decided to include him in the SAL-SUN-2011-01 study of the Spanish Neuroendocrine Tumour Group (GETNE) with sunitinib, which he received at a standard dose of 37.5 mg/day orally between December 2012 and September 2014, 10 months, and was discontinued due to progression. Toxicities included grade I neutropenia and thrombopenia, skin and hair discolouration and grade I2, 3 hypertension.
In November 2014, he received everolimus 10 mg/day orally with hyperglycaemia, anaemia, neutropenia and asthenia grade 12. Treatment was stopped in August 2016, after nine months, when a new radiological and clinical progression was observed. At that time, the patient presented with an ECOG-1, weight loss of about 6 kg in less than three months, altered liver tests and recurrence of the hypercalcaemia present at diagnosis. Suspecting an increase in tumour aggressiveness, the third line of chemotherapy, capecitabine and oxaliplatin, which had been suspended without progression, was restarted. The treatment was prescribed with a 20% dose reduction starting in September 2016, and the patient had to be admitted a few days later due to general deterioration, bed rest, worsening renal function, haematemesis and severe hypercalcaemia. After stabilising the patient, it was decided to follow him up by the Home Palliative Care Unit, and he died in November 2016, 10 years after diagnosis.
