Anamnesis
A 68-year-old woman, resident in Spain for more than 5 years, with a history of hypertension, dyslipidaemia and hypothyroidism on treatment with olmesartan, atorvastatin and levothyroxine. She had no family history or previous infections of interest, nor toxic habits. She consulted the emergency department in January 2018 for painless jaundice. In the anamnesis by apparatus and systems, the patient reported pruritus, jaundice, acholia and choluria of two weeks' evolution, with progressive worsening. She did not report fever. She had a painful lump in the twin region of the left leg, which had been present for a month. In view of the clinical picture described, it was decided to admit her to hospital for diagnostic study and treatment. During the diagnostic process, the patient presented clinical worsening with intense epigastralgia radiating to the waist and oral intolerance due to nausea and vomiting.

Physical examination
The patient had an ECOG 3, and on physical examination there was an 8 cm tumour in the upper third of the external calf, hard, not adherent to deep planes, and painful on palpation. Examination of the abdomen was painful at the epigastric level, without peritonism and without palpable masses or megaliths.

Complementary tests
Laboratory tests showed an altered liver and pancreatic profile: total bilirubin 11.8 mg/dl, GOT 161 U/l, GPT 105 U/l, GGT 316 U/l, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) 964 U/l, LDG 649 U/l, lipase 1. 982 U/l, haemoglobin 10 g/dl, leukocytes 6,310 /ml, absolute neutrophils 4,300/ml, with the rest of the biochemistry, haemogram and coagulation being normal.
Imaging studies began with an abdominal ultrasound scan that revealed a 5 cm solid mass in the head and uncinate body of the pancreas that caused dilatation of the intra- and extrahepatic bile duct, as well as a 6 cm lesion in the left hepatic lobe suggestive of malignancy. With initial suspicion of pancreatic adenocarcinoma, the study was extended with a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis, which confirmed both lesions without evidence of other distant lesions. At the same time, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan was performed to characterise the lesion in the left lower limb, which revealed a soft tissue tumour with extensive contact with the lateral border of the soleus muscle, probably sarcomatous in origin.
Suspecting that the three lesions described belonged to the same histological lineage, an echoendoscopy-guided fine needle aspiration puncture (FNA) of the pancreatic and hepatic lesions was performed, as well as FNA of the lesion on the left lower limb. The result was compatible with a lymphoproliferative process of plasmablastic differentiation (CD 138+), without being able to establish a definitive diagnosis in the absence of material for immunohistochemical study. The case was presented to the multidisciplinary tumour committee, and the differential diagnosis of plasmablastic lymphoma, plasmablastic myeloma and diffuse ALK+ B lymphoma was proposed. It was decided to perform an excision of the lesion on the left lower limb to obtain more histological material, with a definitive anatomopathological diagnosis of CD138, MUM-1, kappa and lambda positive plasmablastic lymphoma, with negativity for ALK, CD20, CD79, CD30, CD56, C-KIT, cyclin D1 and EBV; CD3 expression on the accompanying T lymphocytes. The proliferation index (ki67) was 80-90 %.
Serology was negative for HIV and all other viruses tested. Beta-2 microglobulin was 5.3 mg/dl.

Diagnosis
The patient was diagnosed with stage IV plasmablastic lymphoma due to liver, pancreatic and soft tissue involvement, with a ki67 of 80-90 %. In addition, she had obstructive jaundice due to compression of the pancreatic mass and acute pancreatitis as a secondary complication.

Treatment
Given the clinical picture, a plastic biliary stent was placed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, which had to be replaced by a metallic biliary stent due to restenosis and progressive worsening of the pancreatitis. Despite this, the patient's evolution remained torpid, he presented dyspnoea secondary to bilateral pleural effusion and poor analgesic control secondary to frank worsening of the pancreatitis. The clinical picture was also accompanied by vomiting due to compression of the stomach by pancreatic cysts of up to 17 cm. He required WHO step 3 analgesic treatment for symptomatic control and depletive treatment with high oxygen therapy requirements. Imaging studies performed for the control of pancreatitis complications also showed progression of the lymphoproliferative disease, both at the level of the previous lesions and the appearance of a new lesion in a precaval location. Given the lack of clinical improvement after optimisation of supportive care, and given the suspicion of worsening secondary to progression of the neoplastic disease, chemotherapy treatment was started early in February 2018 according to the EPOCH schedule at 50% of the usual dose for the patient's baseline situation: etoposide 25 mg/m2/day days 1-4, vincristine 0.2 mg/m2/day days 1-4, doxorubicin 5 mg/m2/day days 1-4, cyclophosphamide 375 mg/m2/day 5 and prednisone 60 mg/m2 days 1-5.

Evolution
As a complication after the first treatment cycle, the patient presented a cardiac decompensation secondary to water overload, which responded adequately to diuretics until its resolution. At the same time, the pancreatitis resolved with less need for analgesia and the patient resumed progressive oral tolerance without complications. The second cycle of treatment was administered in March 2018, maintaining the previous dose reduction, with better tolerance, with the most relevant toxicity being grade 4 neutropenia, grade 2 thrombocytopenia, grade 2 anaemia, grade 2 mucositis and diarrhoea secondary to Clostridium difficile. He also started rehabilitation for functional recovery given the complications derived from the prolonged admission.
Currently and after significant clinical improvement, she maintains an ECOG 2, the third cycle of chemotherapy has been administered at full dose with good tolerance, and during the iconographic re-evaluation she presented a partial response by RECIST criteria at hepatic and pancreatic level. The peripancreatic collections are regressing, with normalisation of the pancreatic and hepatic analytical profile.

