Anamnesis
74-year-old male with no known drug allergies, ex-smoker of 40 pack-years and moderate alcohol consumption, with a history of dyslipidaemia, arterial hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, COPD GOLD C and ischaemic stroke in April 2016 without sequelae. Diagnosed in 2012 with multiple myeloma Ig G Kappa ISS II, for which he received treatment with a scheme based on lenalidomide, dexamethasone and elotuzumab in a phase 3 clinical trial, achieving a complete response after three months, maintained in controls. As a consequence of the myeloma he developed stage 3A chronic renal failure. She receives medical treatment with statins, oral antidiabetics, ACE inhibitors and bronchodilators.

Non-hematological oncological history
The patient was diagnosed in August 2017 with a TTF-1 positive lung adenocarcinoma treated by left lower lobectomy resulting in a pT1a (1 cm) N0 (0/5) M0, according to the 8th AJCC1 classification, ALK translocated and tributary to controls.
In the control chest CT scan (June 2018), suspicious lymphadenopathies are described at the retro-oesophageal and right paratracheal level, the cytology of the latter being positive for undifferentiated carcinoma, CK7 positive, TTF-1 negative, ALK not translocated. The study was completed with PET-CT scan, which also showed a lymphadenopathy at the right supraclavicular level suggestive of tumour infiltration. With these results, it was classified as a second primary N3 without T (cTxN3M0) requiring chemoradiotherapy (QT-RT) with radical intent: QT with carboplatin + vinorelbine concomitant with RT (IMRT) from the 2nd cycle, completing a total of 3 cycles of QT and 64.8 Gy.
The PET-CT scan for response assessment showed a morphometabolic partial response (PR) at the adenopathic level, but a level IIb uptake in the right palatine tonsil with ipsilateral laterocervical adenopathy was reported, both suspicious of malignancy.
It was then suggested that the primary tumour, so far unknown, could be tonsillar and after discussion in both multidisciplinary committees (thorax and ENT) it was considered a candidate for diagnostic/therapeutic right tonsillectomy, treatment which was carried out in December 2018. The pathology report describes a 2 cm undifferentiated carcinoma, HPV, TTF-1 and ALK negative, CK7, AE1/AE3 and p16 positive with a Ki67 of 90%; with similar characteristics to those described in the previous adenopathic cytology. Controls were decided and the PET-CT scan of February 2018 showed disappearance of the level IIb adenopathy with stability of the rest of the adenopathies (maintained RP) with no new suspicious uptake, except for "physiological" uptake in the small intestine in the context of treatment with metformin.

Current disease
In February 2019, the patient consulted the emergency department for melena, with marked anaemia (Hb 66g/dl), alteration of the liver profile, severe hypoalbuminaemia and worsening renal function. The patient explained a toxic syndrome of one month's evolution. He was admitted to the Medical Oncology ward for further investigation.

Physical examination
Conscious and oriented in all three spheres. No heart murmurs and rhythmic tones. No added noises in the lung fields. No oedema in the extremities. The abdomen is soft and depressible, and there are no masses or megaliths. No neurological focality on admission to the ward.

Complementary tests
"Laboratory tests (08/02/2019): Hb 66g/l, MCV 88 (normochromic normocytic anaemia), glomerular filtration rate of 35 ml/min/1.73m2, AST 62 IU/l, ALT 118 IU/l, FA 151 IU/l, GGT 121 U/l with normal bilirubin. Severe hypoalbuminaemia of 15.8g/l. Leukocytosis with neutrophilia.
"Bone marrow aspirate (07/02/2019): iron deficient erythropoiesis with no other findings.
"Colonoscopy (20/2/2019): 3-4 cm adenomatous lesion, pale, at ileocecal level which is resected. No other findings. Pathological anatomy: mucosal fragments showing infiltration by poorly differentiated carcinoma with the same pathological features as the previous lesions.
"Angio-CT scan (21/02/2019): the presence of multiple hyperdense images with a nodular appearance located inside the ileal loops and which could correspond to intraluminal implants is noteworthy. There is a 2 cm adenopathic lesion in the left para-aortic region and mesenteric adenopathic lesions. At the splenic level, there is a 2 cm nodular lesion in the anterior splenic pole not present in previous CT scans.

Diagnosis
"Undifferentiated carcinoma of unknown primary with supra- and infradiaphragmatic, tonsillar, splenic and intraluminal (Peyer's plaques) adenopathic dissemination in the small intestine.
"Gastrointestinal bleeding secondary to endoluminal tumour lesions.

Treatment
Symptomatic management with red blood cell transfusion according to requirements (~48 h) and hyperproteic intake without improvement of the parameters or cessation of gastrointestinal bleeding.

Evolution
The patient required a progressive increase in transfusion support and developed severe hypoalbuminaemia, triggering secondary anasarca. The case was assessed as an undifferentiated carcinoma of unknown origin with exclusive involvement of lymphoid tissues, gastrointestinal bleeding secondary to intestinal implants with no possibility of local treatment (endoscopic, surgical or interventional radiology) due to its extension and distant involvement. The patient had a torpid evolution and consequently died in March 2019. After the consent of his family, an autopsy was performed and reported the presence of > 100 polypoid lesions distributed throughout the small intestine and two polypoid lesions in the gastric body, confirming the splenic lesion and multiple supra- and infradiaphragmatic adenopathies.
