Anamnesis
A 68-year-old man with a history of hypertension, dyslipidaemia and ischaemic heart disease. In 2015, prosthesis placement due to abdominal aortic aneurysm. Heavy smoker with clinical criteria of chronic bronchitis and dyspnoea on moderate exertion.
In April 2016, he was diagnosed with stage IV microcytic carcinoma of the right lower lobe (LID), with lymph node and pancreatic metastases. At diagnosis, tumour markers: CEA 7.5 and neurospecific enolase 69.
First-line chemotherapy treatment with carboplatin-etoposide was started, showing a partial response of the lung mass and pancreatic and lymph node metastases in CT after 3 cycles with a decrease in neurospecific enolase. After the 4th cycle, a treatment schedule was established with a 20% reduction due to haematological toxicity: G1 thrombopenia and G3 anaemia.
In additional controls by the Palliative Medicine Unit, dexamethasone 4 mg a day was prescribed as an orexigen and home oxygen therapy with nasal goggles at 2 l/minute. As a result, she developed hyperglycaemia secondary to corticoid treatment, requiring the start of subcutaneous insulin.
Prior to the 6th cycle, assessed in the emergency department for increased dyspnoea, a derevaluation CT scan was performed which showed mediastinal and hilar lymph node progression. Stable lung mass. Administration of the 6th cycle of carboplatin-etoposide was suspended, and second-line treatment with oral topotecan was proposed and started in October 2016.
She was admitted from the emergency department on the 5th day of the first cycle of topotecan due to febrile neutropenia with probable respiratory focus. Although there was no evidence of infiltrate in the chest X-ray, treatment was started with intravenous broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy: cefepime.
During the first days of admission, the patient reported discomfort in the oral cavity and on examination: G1 mucositis and thrush, adding intravenous fluconazole and oral nystatin to the antibiotic treatment.
On 22 October 2016, he began to experience intense pain in the left mandibular region associated with oedema in the left maxillary region and ipsilateral lower palpebral region.

Physical examination
During the examination: exophthalmos of 3 mm in the left eye. Limitation to supraduction of the eye with isochoric and reactive pupils without afferent pupillary defect. No decrease in visual acuity. In the oral cavity: greyish-black eschar in the left hard hemipalate, 3 cm in anteroposterior diameter and 2 cm in transverse diameter. No other lesions in the oral cavity or palpable cervical adenopathies. During the directed anamnesis: the palate lesion had appeared in the previous 24 hours. Nasal fibroscopy performed by Otorhinolaryngology showed haematic debris and septal perforation with blackish tissue obstructing the left nostril.

Complementary tests
Clindamycin was added to cover anaerobic germs and an urgent assessment and biopsy of the necrotic lesion in the palate was requested by Maxillofacial Surgery. An urgent facial CT scan was performed: it showed signs of ethmoidal sinusopathy with the presence of liquid gas levels, an increase in soft tissue in the left mandibular region and discontinuity of the platysma muscle in the neck. Fluconazole was discontinued and treatment with liposomal amphotericin B 5 mg/kg body weight every 24 hours was started due to suspicion of mucormycosis.

Diagnosis
Palate biopsy culture confirms isolation of filamentous fungus compatible with Rhizopus.

Treatment
He was assessed by Otorhinolaryngology, where urgent surgery was considered on 24 October 2016.
The surgical protocol describes: mucormycosis affecting the anterior 2/3 of the hard palate, left maxilla, nasal septum, left orbit and ipsilateral posterior and anterior ethmoidal cells. Orbital exenteration en bloc with left maxilla and palate, significant necrosis of the lateral nasal wall and lamina papyracea. Thrombosis of ethmoidal arteries and minimal Mucor imprint at the base of the skull at the level of the posterior ethmoid (postoperative CT scan).
After surgery, the patient required enteral nutrition by nasogastric tube. Treatment was maintained with amphotericin B at a dose of 6 mg/kg body weight with the addition of caspofungin, as sensitivity to antifungal treatment was confirmed in the microbiological study of the surgical specimen.

Evolution
Unfavourable post-surgical evolution, with clinical worsening in the days following the operation: increased sensation of dyspnoea and analgesia in continuous perfusion due to pain at craniofacial level.
Progression of necrotic lesion on the surgical scar on the palate, despite continued antifungal treatment.
A control cranial and thoracoabdominal CT scan showed post-surgical changes from the left maxillectomy and exenteration of the orbit with occupation of the left frontal, ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses. The chest showed an increase in lung mass and mediastinal adenopathy with the appearance of bilateral diffuse infiltrates and right pleural effusion related to pulmonary oedema or an infectious process. CT scan reports pulmonary progression of the neoplastic disease.
Significant clinical, respiratory and global deterioration persisted and, in view of the poor evolution, analgesic perfusion was increased, limiting the therapeutic effort, and he died eleven days after surgery.
