Anamnesis
A 57-year-old woman with no known drug allergies or toxic habits, who, as a non-oncological history of interest, presented obesity treated surgically with gastric bypass in June 2001 as well as a left breast cyst resection in 2009. She had no family history of cancer.
The origin of the patient's oncological history dates back to February 2014, presenting as the first symptom a self-palpable nodule on the right breast with ultrasound-BAG compatible with a heterogeneous image of 50x23 mm in the outer quadrant of the right breast and a pathological anatomy that was positive for breast neoplasia CDI histological grade III, RHE-, RP- , HER2 -, Ki67 of 75%. The PET-CT scan showed lymphadenopathies in the axillary, internal mammary and ipsilateral supraclavicular territories without images suggestive of systemic metastases. Our patient started neoadjuvant treatment with CBDP/docetaxel for six cycles between March and July 2014 and underwent modified right radical mastectomy in August 2014. The pathological anatomy of the surgical specimen was compatible with triple negative IDC with a total of eleven affected nodes out of the 25 examined. Assessed as pT1N3M0, after the operation, our patient continued with adjuvant treatment according to the FEC scheme (5-Fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide) for three cycles, radiotherapy on the surgical site with a total dose of 50 Gy and letrozole. In February 2015, a control thoraco-abdominal CT scan showed liver progression, with the appearance of three liver metastases, and a first line of treatment of metastatic disease with Capecitabine/Gemcitabine was started for a total of two cycles between February and March 2015.
In April 2015, our patient attended the emergency department with a 72-hour history of sudden dyspnoea, chest pain and dry cough not associated with fever or expectoration.

Physical examination
On arrival at the ED, the patient's general condition was preserved, she was haemodynamically stable, afebrile and her saturation level was 88% on room air. Physical examination showed no alterations in pulmonary auscultation or signs of heart failure.

Complementary tests
Analyses showed plateletopenia of 28 x10E9/L (normal range 147-386 x10E9/L) and an elevated D-dimer with no other alterations of interest. As part of the initial studies, an electrocardiogram was requested, which showed right bundle branch block not present in previous cases, with no other pathological findings. The chest X-ray showed no signs of heart failure or images suggestive of an infectious process. In addition, given that this was a patient with obesity and recent onset of chest pain, myocardial damage enzymes were requested for analysis, which were found to be in the normal range. Following the results of the initial tests, and under the suspicion of pulmonary thromboembolism, a pulmonary CT angiography was performed which showed an increase in the calibre of the pulmonary artery trunk (31 mm) as well as signs of right ventricular overload and small patchy opacities in ground glass of subpleural location not present in previous studies, ruling out the presence of repletion defects in pulmonary arteries or parenchymal condensations indicative of an infectious process.
Blood cultures were requested at admission, which were negative, as well as induced sputum and PCR for respiratory viruses, with no microbiological isolations in any of the samples. Analytically, the CA-15-3 antigen was 152.4 U/mL (normal range 0.0 - 35.0 U/mL).

Diagnosis
Given the images suggestive of right overload by Angio-CT and chest pain symptoms, the patient was evaluated by Cardiology. An echocardiogram was performed which showed signs of right overload, displacement of the ventricular septum and absence of collapse of the inferior vena cava on inspiration, ruling out segmental alterations in ventricular contractility indicative of ischaemic heart disease.

None of these findings were present in the echocardiogram prior to the start of cancer treatment.
All the images described above in relation to the CT angiography and echocardiogram, together with the patient's symptoms, were compatible with acute pulmonary hypertension.

Treatment
Since our patient was in rapidly progressive respiratory failure, and although the clinical picture was not very suggestive of an infectious process, empirical antibiotic therapy was started with piperaziline/tazobactam and azithromycin, as well as high-flow oxygen therapy. Despite this, the patient evolved in a torpid manner with progressively higher oxygen therapy requirements and hypotension refractory to serum therapy, finally requiring the initiation of vasoactive support and cardiac monitoring 48 hours after her arrival at the ED.

Evolution
The patient was a woman with triple-negative breast cancer who had recently started first-line treatment with gemcitabine/capecitabine and presented with acute dyspnoea secondary to acute pulmonary hypertension of unclear cause, with infectious and cardiological aetiology having been ruled out. At this point, the option of a pulmonary tumour thrombotic microangiopathy was considered as the cause of the acute pulmonary hypertension. To complete the diagnosis, a scintigraphy was requested which showed small patchy repletion defects and a presumptive diagnosis was made.

Our patient progressively developed right heart failure despite supportive measures. Intubation and admission to the Intensive Care Unit was performed, but the patient died 96 hours after arrival at the Emergency Department.

The necropsy report described, a posteriori, findings of massive thrombotic microangiopathy with pulmonary oedema and haemorrhage with the presence of tumour cells in the pulmonary capillary lumen in the form of emboli as well as signs of heart failure with cor pulmonale, cardiomegaly and dilatation of the right ventricle. Images attached to the report are shown below.

All microbiological cultures of lung, liver and splenic tissue were negative. The ascitic and pericardial fluid as well as the blood cultures that were initially taken showed no microbiological isolates. The diagnosis of pulmonary tumour thrombotic microangiopathy was therefore definitive as the fundamental cause of the acute pulmonary hypertension and death of our patient.
