We present the case of a 15-year-old female patient with fever, lymphadenopathy, pharyngeal pain and cough, who was seen in the emergency department and diagnosed with infectious mononucleosis by serological tests (EBV VCA IgM IgM IFA: Positive).

Four days later, she returned to our hospital due to subjective worsening. She reported intense odynophagia and moderate dyspnoea on exertion. On examination, the patient was febrile, with inspiratory stridor and presented a very painful retropharyngeal and right laterocervical tumour.

Emergency laboratory tests showed normochromic-normochromic anaemia (Hb 9.30 g/dL, V.C.M 85.20 fL), elevated liver enzymes (GGT 115.00 U/L, AST (GOT) 57.00 U/L, ALT (GPT) 77.00 U/L), hyperglycaemia (Glucose 140.00 mg/dl), leucocytes 4.7 x10E3/microL with 44% lymphocytes.

An emergency cervical CT scan showed a hypodense, homogeneous collection located in the right retropharyngeal space, with extension to the right parapharyngeal space and bilateral laterocervical lymphadenopathies of radiologically significant size. On oropharyngeal inspection, there was bulging of the ipsilateral tonsil with protrusion of the retropharyngeal wall, compromising the airway.

A sample was sent to the microbiology department, which showed a positive culture for Clostridium sp and Prevotella.

On admission, the patient presented with productive cough, prolonged fever, abdominal distension and general malaise. A chest X-ray was performed, showing pleural effusion with right pulmonary condensation. Chest X-ray. Right pleural effusion with right pulmonary condensation.


A thoraco-abdominal CT scan was requested, showing numerous adenopathies in the prevascular, paratracheal and subcarinal space, hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, alveolar occupations in the pulmonary parenchyma associated with right pleural effusion and a diffuse increase in mediastinal fat density suggestive of mediastinitis (without evidence of drainable collections). Thoracic CT scan. Lung parenchyma with patchy alveolar opacifications of ground glass attenuation with areas of alveolar consolidation in posterior segment of LSD and both lower lobes, findings suggestive of pneumonic process. Bilateral hilar adenopathies of inflammatory reactive appearance.

Both the episode of mediastinitis and the episode of pneumonia with parapneumonic effusion were resolved by antibiotic treatment (Imipenem associated with Vancomycin).
After 25 days in hospital the patient was discharged with medical treatment (Levofloxacin and Metronidazole).
