Anamnesis
No family history of note.

Personal history: no known drug allergies. No toxic habits.
Dyslipidaemia. Stage V chronic kidney disease secondary to juvenile polycystic kidney disease. He started renal replacement therapy in 1991. First kidney transplant from a related living donor (mother) on 16/4/1991, and started dialysis for chronic graft nephropathy in March 2009. Septic shock of biliary origin due to BGN requiring admission to the ICU in September 2010. After imaging tests, the patient was diagnosed with Caroli's disease and chronic pancreatitis, presenting with recurrent cholangitis, which necessitated the placement of a biliary plastic prosthesis. He was also diagnosed with chronic liver disease with portal HT with ascites, splenomegaly and grade I oesophageal varices. Hepatorenal transplant on 2/9/2011, which required quadruple immunosuppression with thymoglobulin + prednisone + mycophenolate + tacrolimus. Calorie-protein malnutrition. Emergency surgery in May 2012 for incarcerated hernia. Currently maintains baseline renal function with creatinine around 2.1-2.5 mg/dl (ClCr 35-45 ml/min). Good liver function, although he has recurrent ascites that has required repeated evacuation paracenteisis.

Oncological history: in June 2013 he presented with a painful lesion on the right shoulder and, after excision on 5/9/2013, he was diagnosed by PA as a well-differentiated infiltrating squamous cell carcinoma, which required a second surgical intervention on 12/12/2013 to enlarge the edges.

Postoperatively, he noticed a homolateral axillary nodule, for which an ultrasound and CT scan were performed, suggesting its probable metastatic origin; furthermore, a biopsy was performed, which was inconclusive. After presenting the case to the Multidisciplinary Committee, axillary lymph node removal was decided. Finally, the AP diagnosis was metastasis of squamous cell carcinoma, with images of tumour vascular invasion and extension to adjacent soft tissues, in 14/17 isolated lymph nodes.

Reason for consultation: referred to our centre for evaluation of specific treatment.

Physical examination
ECOG 0. Acceptable general condition. Weight 60 kg, height 170 cm. Multiple verrucous lesions all over the body, especially on the back. Most painful lesion on the chest with pustule due to rubbing.
Oedematous area in the lymphadenectomy scar in the right axilla, with a small nodule in the central area. Cardiopulmonary auscultation without findings. Abdomen slightly distended, dull to percussion. Limbs without findings.

Complementary tests
"CBC: Cr 2.1 mg/dl. CBC: Hb 12.6 g/dl, leukocytes and neutrophils in range, platelets 110,000.
"Chest CT scan with IV contrast (28/4/2014): extension study of squamous cell carcinoma. There are several malignant lymph nodes in the right axilla. Appearance of a single pulmonary nodule with polylobulated borders with a maximum diameter of 10 mm in the LSD, suggesting a metastatic nodule, and a lymph node with a necrotic centre in the left lower bronchopulmonary lymph node chain, probably metastatic. Areas of infectious bronchiolitis in both lung bases.
Free ascites.

Diagnosis
Advanced squamous cell carcinoma (second axillary lymph node relapse and pulmonary nodule).

Treatment
The patient underwent chemotherapy treatment according to the carboplatin + 5-FU scheme for two cycles: first cycle on 12/5/2014 and second cycle with 80% reduction due to neutropenia on 16/6/2014.
Local radiotherapy at the level of the right axilla between 2 September and 28 October 2014, receiving a total of 39 Gy in 13 sessions. Treatment had to be interrupted due to local infection.

Evolution
The administration of the treatment was complex, requiring several interruptions due to neutropenia, including a 20% reduction in the second cycle of chemotherapy. Other toxicities presented by the chemotherapy were grade 1 nausea and grade 3 asthenia. In July 2014, the patient was admitted to the ICU for septic shock of urinary origin due to Escherichia coli, with progressive recovery during admission until discharge. He received radiotherapy between September and October 2014, and it was necessary to perform a parenchymal repair due to local infection, which resolved after antibiotic treatment.

A re-evaluation CT scan was performed on 15/12/2015: intervened axillary lesion, in which lymphadenopathy and soft tissue mass persisted, although with an evident decrease in the size of all the lesions. Lung nodule in the LSD decreased in size (7 mm maximum diameter). Good evolution of the previously existing pleuropulmonary pathology. Partial response.
At this point it was decided to follow up due to the lack of progression.

The follow-up CT scan was repeated on 27/4/2015: a significant decrease in the size of the right axillary lymph node involvement was observed. Moderate reduction of the LSD nodule (5 mm maximum diameter). Stability of the centrolobulillary bronchiolitic lesions.
The patient is currently doing well, and it has been decided to follow him up quarterly with imaging tests.
