Anamnesis
In November 2010, a 46-year-old man was diagnosed with a localised hypopharyngeal neoplasm due to dysphonia, dysphagia, odynophagia and reflex otalgia on the left (left). The patient had a history of smoking and alcoholism, a traumatic brain injury with intraparenchymal haemorrhage in the left frontobasal region and a liver enzyme alteration related to alcoholism.

Physical examination
Physical examination at diagnosis revealed a left laterocervical tumour measuring 5-6 cm in the middle jugular chain, fixed, difficult to delimit and painful, and a 1 cm lymphadenopathy in the left lower jugular vein. Examination by the ENT department revealed an excrescent lesion in the left pharyngeal wall with involvement of the aryepiglottic fold and left piriform sinus with fixation of the left vocal cord (IVC).

Complementary tests
At diagnosis, the following complementary tests were performed:
"Cervical CT scan: tumour in the left pyriform sinus with cranial extension through the lateral pharyngeal wall to the tonsillar glossolaryngeal fold region. Extension to the larynx with infiltration of the left aryepiglottic fold, band and IVC. Medial extension to posterior pharyngeal wall at retrocricoid level, crossing midline. Exolaryngeal extension with infiltration of perithyroid musculature on both sides of left wing of thyroid cartilage suggestive of infiltration. Caudally, it contacts the apical portion of the left thyroid lobe without a fatty plane of separation. Pathological adenopathy in group IIA and III on the left.
"Thoracic-abdominal CT scan: normal.
"Referred to ENT examination and biopsy.

Diagnosis
The patient was diagnosed with a hypopharyngeal neoplasm in the left pyriform sinus (moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma), cT4N2M, stage IVA.

Treatment
In December 2010 he began radical treatment (tto) with radiotherapy (RT) and chemotherapy (QT) with cisplatin (CDDP), ending in February 2011.

After completing the treatment, he was assessed in March 2011 as a partial response of the primary tumour and adenopathy by imaging tests, and on physical examination, there was a large decrease in the size of the adenopathic mass in the middle jugular chain and disappearance of the adenopathy in the lower jugular chain.

He was admitted several times before, during and after the initial treatment for dysphagia, oesophagitis and aspiration pneumonia, and a feeding gastrostomy was placed.

On 17 May 2011, a total laryngectomy with partial pharyngectomy and bilateral functional emptying was performed.

Subsequent admissions due to colonisation of the pharyngostoma by Pseudomonas and secondary bacteraemia treated with antibiotic therapy with good evolution.

Evolution
In October 2013, radiological left laterocervical lymph node recurrence was detected, non-surgical due to carotid artery involvement, and so a first line of QT treatment was started according to the CDDP-5-fluorouracil (5FU)-cetuximab scheme.

Fifteen days after starting this treatment, he was admitted for loss of vision in the left eye secondary to occlusion of the central retinal artery (CRA). Examination revealed palpebral ptosis and alteration of the left cranial facial nerve in relation to compression by the conglomerate in the left internal carotid artery (ICAI) and paraneoplastic hypercoagulability syndrome, and the following complementary tests were performed:
"Cerebral angioresonance showed absence of flow in intracranial ICAI due to external compression of the adenopathic conglomerate. It is assessed that this has occurred progressively, and that it compensates through the right carotid artery with somewhat more accelerated flows and opening of the anterior communicating artery.
"Supra-aortic trunks duplex (TSA) and transcranial (12/11/2013): shows inverted left occipital artery (AOI). Neck difficult to assess, identifying the left carotid axis. Calcified plaque in the right bulb without any repercussions. Rest of arteries normal.
"In staging CT (15/11/2013): good radiological evolution of the adenopathic conglomerate with left laterocervical necrotic component. Left carotid artery thrombosis.
"In addition, analytically, polyglobulia was observed (haemoglobin 21.7 g/dl, haematocrit 59.1%), which was considered paraneoplastic after ruling out Polycythaemia Vera (normal EPO, negative JAK-2), requiring frequent phlebotomies.
Anti-aggregation therapy was started with acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg and phlebotomy was performed.

He was discharged with the following diagnoses: RCA and LCA occlusion secondary to compression of the adenopathic conglomerate and paraneoplastic hypercoagulable state and paraneoplastic polyglobulia.

After discharge, in December 2013, he was assessed again in consultations and treatment was restarted, this time with carboplatin (CBDCA)-5FU at 90% and colony-stimulating factor, performing three more cycles with stability of radiological disease after initial response with the 1st cycle with CDDP-5FU-Cetuximab.

Thrombosis of the right external iliac artery (AIED) was also observed, with chronic thrombosis persisting in the left common aortotid artery (ACCI), so anticoagulation with low molecular weight heparin at 1 mg/kg/12 hours was started at this time.

After 2 more cycles of treatment (6 cycles in total), progression of the left laterocervical mass was observed, so a second line with weekly Paclitaxel and Cetuximab was started in April 2014, with very good progress after 2 cycles of treatment, with the laterocervical mass disappearing. She received 4 more cycles with the same scheme and is currently on maintenance treatment with Cetuximab with no evidence of disease.

She persists with anopsia of the left eye which has not recovered and requires monthly phlebotomies in order to maintain a haematocrit of <50%. He also continues with anticoagulation due to persistent ACCI thrombosis and AIED.
